We have had an extraordinarily good financial year. The demand for home loans continued to
be strong with much of the headwinds of the previous year being behind us. We had a
successful listing of our subsidiary, HDFC Life, which enabled us to monetise a part of our
stake in the life insurance company. Right from the beginning, we had told our shareholders
that investing in the insurance sector required patient capital. We supported and nurtured
HDFC Life for seventeen long years prior to its listing. We believe listing best reflects the
value we have created for our shareholders.
We concluded the financial year with an equity share capital raise of ~ 13,000 crore. A large
part of the capital raised will be utilised to maintain our shareholding in HDFC Bank. Our
investment in the bank has been amongst our best value drivers for several years.
HDFC continues to maintain a fortified balance sheet. We now feel that the time is
right to lay the foundation for the next phase of long-term growth and sustainability.
Some of our plans for the future are still at the drawing board stage. Yet, we know the broad
contours. We want to focus on strengthening our presence across the entire value chain of
housing, seek opportunities in stressed real estate assets, mark a deeper footprint in the
health insurance space and explore emerging organic and inorganic growth opportunities.
Besides this, we will continue to support the growth of our subsidiary companies.
Building for the Long-Term
As a financial conglomerate, we need to keep building for the future. Our key long-term
priorities are ethics, transparency, performance and customer-orientation. We will continue to
pursue these priorities with vigor whilst focusing on the potential to create long-term value.
We regularly engage in dialogue with our stakeholders on developments of the Corporation,
but desist from the practice of quarterly or annual earnings guidance. Listed companies do
feel the pressure - not of quarterly reporting per se, but meeting short-term expectations of
the markets in an increasingly volatile environment. Globally, there is a discernible trend of
companies curtailing capex, holding back on investing in new products or reducing budgets
on human resources, research and development. These are often myopically construed as
dispensable costs. Nothing can be more damaging to a company than putting off long-term
investments to appease short-term stakeholders.
Fortunately, there is now a chorus of saner voices highlighting the long-term perils of short-
term thinking. This also calls for a mind-set change on the part of both, companies and the
investor community to lay less emphasis on the short-term. A period of one quarter is way
too short in the life of a company. Many industries are cyclical in nature, including housing.
To reiterate, we are completely in for the long-term. We like long-term investors, nurture
long-tenured employees and strive for loyal customers who stay with the HDFC group of
companies for years.
An Era of Housing Reforms
Urbanisation is an irreversible trend in India. By 2030, it is estimated that half of India's
population will be residing in urban areas. An overwhelming majority of India's GDP growth,
jobs and wealth are created in its cities. Existing cities have to grow the peripheries and new
cities need to be created to absorb the influx of people.
Clearly, more houses are needed. But to keep pace with the demand, there is an urgent need
for many more construction and contracting companies. Construction of affordable housing
on a mass scale needs thousands of plumbers, electricians, carpenters, masons, amongst
several others. The housing sector always fuels the job market. If job creation is the need of
the hour for the country, then the solution lies in building more homes.
So what makes us optimistic about the future?
The impetus given to increasing homeownership over the past two years by the present
government has been unprecedented. Especially in the affordable housing space, the slew of
measures undertaken to incentivise developers, financiers and homebuyers has resulted in
visible change on the ground.
Activity in the construction sector has picked up and housing credit growth has been robust.
The pool of financially stronger real estate companies focusing on affordable housing has
widened, largely due to the attractive tax incentives. This augurs well for the supply side. The
interest subvention scheme has been well received and with the widening of its scope, the
number of beneficiaries is expected to rise. Housing finance companies now have a
diversified pool of resources to tap into with the liberalisation of external commercial
borrowings and masala bonds.
Incentives or subventions are generally temporary in nature. Yet, the most significant measure
taken has been the discipline brought in for developers and the protection of homebuyers,
which is now permanently enshrined in the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act,
2016. Though implementation within states varies, RERA marks an era of confidence for all
prospective homebuyers.
Calling for Transparency
The central government has outdone itself in its support to the housing sector. The single
roadblock in the housing sector today is the cussedness of state governments and local level
authorities in embracing a transparent and streamlined process for building approvals. In so
many ways, the government has been ahead of the curve in adopting digitisation to make processes more efficient. Yet, one fails to understand the reluctance to put in place an on line,
time-bound, single-window clearance mechanism for at least fast-tracking the numerous
approvals required for affordable housing.
Many of our long-term shareholders would have noticed that I keep raising the issue of the
need for greater transparency in building approvals. The reason I do so, is because it is the
homebuyer who is hurt the most. Price escalations due to delays and payment of speed
money for building approvals are ultimately costs borne by the homebuyer.
The clarion call from the highest authority in the country to "free the housing sector of
corruption and middlemen" is significant. Perhaps the central government needs to
implement a carrot-and-stick approach, which either incentivises state governments who
fast-track approvals for affordable housing or penalises them for not falling in line. Quicker
approvals shorten construction timelines and this will help reduce the overall cost for a
homebuyer.
Housing Finance: Next Steps
One aspect that the housing sector has always grappled with is how can land be made
available at reasonable prices? The answer lies in smart regulation.
For the past twelve years, the regulators have not allowed banks and housing finance
companies (HFCs) to fund land transactions, yet non-banking financial companies (NBFCs)
and private equity players are permitted to do so. This regulatory arbitrage allows N BFCs
and private equity players to levy prohibitively high interest rates on developers borrowing
to acquire land.
My key question is if NBFCs are allowed to cross over into activities of HFCs, then why can't
HFCs be permitted to fund developers to buy land for affordable housing?
One can understand the central bank's predicament of not wanting banks at this juncture to
fund land transactions. But the core role of H FCs is to support housing. If H FCs of a certain
threshold size are permitted to fund developers to acquire land for affordable housing, then
the current high interest rates are likely to get rationalised. This in turn will help reduce the
ultimate cost for a homebuyer.
HFCs are well regulated. The National Housing Bank, the regulator for HFCs, understands
the nuances of housing markets and can ensure there is sufficient vigilance to guard against
any speculative funding of land transactions.
Secondly, the growing practice of housing finance players picking loans off each other's
balance sheet needs to be carefully monitored. With the regulators prohibiting prepayment
charges on most home loans, no one gains in this game, except the agent who keeps
collecting commissions. Lenders do incur costs while originating loans. It is thus logical that there be some compensation to a lender -- especially when a customer is poached within a
timeframe of say, less than two years. To my mind, regulators should not encourage 'lazy
housing finance'.
Closing Thoughts
I am told HDFC has delivered amongst the best-in-class shareholder value - an estimated
360 times increase in market capitalisation over a 25-year period between 1993 and 2018.
There are now four listed entities within the HDFC group and one more is on the anvil. We
hope to have the initial public offering of HDFC Asset Management Company Limited
launched shortly.
Our stock market performance is simply a reflection of the progress we have made over the
years. Long-term investors who understand how we work should not get perturbed with
short-term market volatilities. After all, resilient businesses take time to grow - our financial
results of today are in actuality, a reflection of our actions taken several quarters and several
years ago.
Finally, I think it is important to reiterate to all our shareholders that succession planning
both, within HDFC and its group companies is a key agenda on each of the respective
boards. As passionate and energetic as some of our leaders within the HDFC group are
about their jobs, the reality is that individuals do get on in age.
Personally, the task of ensuring frictionless transitions is and will be on the top of my mind.
That said, it is not as if there will be any announcements right away. All the boards of the
HDFC group of companies believe that succession planning needs a time frame of 18 to 24
months to ensure a smooth transition.
I am confident of the strong pipeline of talent for various functions across all companies
within the HDFC group. Yet, positions at the helm require the respective boards and
nomination and remuneration committees to evaluate options of both, internal and external
candidates. At HDFC, the board and Keki Mistry have agreed that he will continue in his
present capacity as Vice Chairman and CEO for a period of three years, subject to
shareholders' approval.
I could not be more grateful to all the leaders across the HDFC group for the extraordinary
work that they do each day. Yet, each one of these outstanding leaders stand tall because of
their strong and cohesive teams that back them.
As for me, I won't lose sight of the fact that it is the continued support of our shareholders
that gives me the privilege to serve as non-executive chairman.
