As I s~ down to gather my thoughts, I can hardly believe this is HDFC's 40• annual report. The excitement of growing the
housing finance business today remains as palpable as our first day of operations.
I have pondered deeply on how to benchmark an organisation' s performance over four decades.
I can say with cei1ainty that as an insti!IJtion, we have been unwavering in our commitment to render exceptional service to our
customers and build shareholder value. We treat our employees well so they in tum seive our wstomers well. We know our
differentiator is our people-driven approach. This has made us a preferred institution for long-term investment, business and
employment We hope never to change this approach. It is embedded in our DNA and I am confident that the Mure leadership
at HDFC will continue to uphold this as a tradition.
Forty years and on
Back in 1977, the strong institutional support we received for a never-tried-before venture in India was invaluable. We remain
indebted to those who supported us at the very beginning. They believed in our vision and conviction of the need for retail
housing finance in India. It is gratifying that many who had stood by us at inception, continue to do so even today. These are
generalional engagements. Such relalionships are rare, precious and deeply valued.
Forty years ago, HDFC as the lone retail housing financier in India was 'All for Housing'. Now, these three
crucial words have been flipped around to 'Housing for All'. This is momentous. The government has
rightly pulled out all the stops to increase homeownership in the country. Every constituent in the housing
chain has been incentivised and encouraged to play their role in the affordable housing mission.
As shareholders, you would have recognised that housing has multiplier effects on the economy lhrough increased productivity,
job creation and higher capital inflows.
Countries that accord importance to their housing markets rank better on almost every developmental indicator. People who
have the security of a home have a sense of belonging and a key stake in society. Those who live in permanent housing
structures are inherently better educated, healthier and happier.
Housing outlook • more for less for more
A rapidly growing country like India with a large young population needs more homes at affordable price points which in tum,
would enable more households to become homeowners.
The thrust given to affordable housing has been extremely encouraging. Developers can now avail a 100% tax deduclion on
profits and gains ff they construct affordable housing units. No other major sector of the economy has been given such
attractive incentives. Further, according infrastructure status for affordable housing should help open up more avenues of lower
cos~ longer tenor funding.
For home loan wstomers, besides direcl fiscal benefits, the government has also extended Its support through interest rate
subventions. The government's modified Credit linked Subsidy Scheme is an outcome of the realisalion that a small bit of
support can go a long way in enabling both, the middle-income and lesser privileged groups to become homeowners ea~ier in
lffe.
Subscribers of the Employees' Provident Fund Scheme can now withdraw up to 90% of their acwmulated funds for a down
payment to buy a home or service the equaled monthly Instalments through their provident fund account. This measure
effectively helps increase the loan eligibility of a borrower. It facilMtes extracting the borrower's own savings, which otheiwise
would have been locked up.
Segments of the real estate sector In India have many a times been a hotbed of undesirable activity. These practices should
come to an end with the recent establishment of real estate regulatory authorities across the country. These regulators will be
the confidence builders for consume!S and watchdogs for compliance on the part of developers. Increased transparency
benefits the entire housing ecosystem.
For years, the market craved an 'enabling environmenr !Ila! would foster an increased supply of homes at the right price points and
help widen the target group of customers for housing finance pla~. This governmenrs policies on housing are practical and
implementable. With the benefit of four decades of experience in this rield. I can confidently say that I have never been as
optimistic about the housing sector as I am w rrenlly.
Culture - our bedrock of sustainability
What differentiates HDFC is perhaps not our products or strategy; it is our w lture. Culture is intangible and unique to each
organisation. Al HDFC, we believe our culture is our greatest strength, best reflected through the long-term commitment of our
employees. We value loyally immensely.
Our culture is our binding force. Our only ask of our employees is integrity, transparency and honesty in all
dealings. These attributes are our 'non-negotiables'.
Every employee's role al HDFC is by default, designed to be that of a team player. This strong inter-dependence is mutually
reinforcing for ~ helps keep egos aside. Our interactions are participatory, not confrontational.
Over tile years, we have experimented and allowed an environment that provides an entrepreneurial zeal. Often, we have taken
calculated risks. Wllere it has worked, we have shared our success with our stakeholders. As a people-driven organisalion. we
have team! to make allowances for failure as well. The only condition is that we learn from our mistakes. A sense of openness and
accountability provides the drive to keep extending our reach to wstomers and building new relationships.
Our organisalion like any other, has witnessed various business cycles - extremes of both, euphoria and stress. It is in these
situations in particular, that one realises the importance of corporate culture and its impact on tong-term performance. Culture Is
the invisible force that lends consistency and endurance.
Rules. processes and systems ensure conformity and compliance. What is the outcome when there are no guideposts? This is
where values, attitude, gut-feel and ethics come to play.
I am proud of HDFC's home-grown culture. It is not a given - we work on ii every day, in all our dealings.
Our culture is not a mandated goal, but simply an outcome of collective, repeated, emulated, refined and
internalised set of behaviours. It is imbibed through demonstrative effect which starts at the top and
flows down.
The assurance I offer investors is that as long as our wlture remains sacred, HDFC will keep creating shareholder value for the
years to come.
Housing finance is a long-term business. The relationships we develop with wstomers are tong-term as well. The time taken to
build new homes in India is inordinatefy long. This begs the question - why are financial results looked at with such a short-term
lens?
In any sector, the objective of disclosing quarterty financials is to provide an update on a company's performance. Yet, quarterly
numbers need to be viewed wh the right perspective.
Short-termism is becoming worryingly dominant. I strongly believe time has come for an open dialogue on the perils of extreme
short-termism. We need a change in the mindset and perllaps a different matrix to better evaluate corporate pertormance. Patient,
engaged and productive capital must not become elusive.
In any sector, when unrealistic expectations override, there is undue pressure on management to deliver. If this repeatedly
happens every three months, it leaves tittle time to focus on the long-term, big picture. Short-termism undermines a company's
ability to invest and grow.
We believe there is strong merit in investing time and effort through regular, open dialogue with our inves!OlS. This helps investors
understand us better. At HDFC, we continually assess the environment to determine a sustainable growth trajectoty. We shun
short-OJts and myopic strategies. Growth expectations have to be recalibrated as the base gets larger. Market conditions,
regulatory requirements and self-imposed prudence have meant that the time taken for loans to reflect profitability has increased.
We maintain that our strategy of fortifying our balance sheet has held us in good stead.
Ceflain emerging market trends suggest that aggressive growth, particularly on loans against property is now experiencing some
level of stress. For us, our priority has always been housing loans. Further, at an industry level, shifting of housing loans from one
player's balance sheet to another does not tantamount to growth in the overall housing marital The ovefridlng objective must
always be funding incremental housing.
The outcome of the government's measures, however, will largely depend on the extent of supply of affordable housing. The final
price point of these units is crucial.
What lends confidence is that certain well reputed and experienced developers have already committed to building affordable
housing units. Yet, the reality is that in India, the building cycle is unduly lengthy. The last leg of change needed to boost Ille
housing sector is streamlining building approvals.
Buildi.ng approvals is tile domain of slate governments and local level authorities. If speedier delivery of projects is the need of the
hour, then the process of multiple approvals at various stages of construction is counterproductive. Even if a few key states take
the lead to fast-track approvals for affordable housing projects, It will set a precedent for others to emulate.
It is equally important to find the means to reduce land prices. A decade ago, the Reserve Bank of India had prohibited banks and
housing finance companies (HFCs) from funding land transactions as they feared the build-up of a real estate bubble.
To acquire land, developers have to rely on funding by non-banking financial entities and private equity funds, but these are at
exorbitant rates. While one appreciates the stress that the banking sector Is undergoing on asset quallty, it does appear illogical to
continue to prohibit HFCs from funding land transactions. HFCs understand the needs of developers. No doubt land financing
requires strong checks and balances. HFCs can help reduce the cost of a home for the customer if they are allowed to fund the
developer at the lime of purchase of the land. One can only hope this repeated plea gets its due attention.
Our future
Over the last 25 years, we have seized every opportunity to diversify into various financial services as and when these sectors
were liberalised.
HDFC has a unique structure as both, a single product financial company and parent of the group companies. Our subsidiary and
associate companies are decentralised and managed and run by independent boards. Our only can on our group companies is
pertormance evaluation of the group CEOs, succession planning, acquisitions and key investments.
We now hope to extract greater value from our group companies and explore listing opportunities, where conducive.
To better reflect long-term value aeation, investors of HDFC need to increasingly focus on the consolidated rather than the
standalone entity.
To conclude, I would like to reiterate that India's macro-economic fundamentals have never been stronger than today.
A number of structural refoons are underway which will place India on a higher growth trajectory. We are excited about our future
as we are about India's fut\Jre and we hope you partake in our optimism.
