Dear Shareholders,
The past thirty-nine years, have been an extraordinary journey. In 1977, HDFC was akin to a start-up. We ventured into a business that no one in India had attempted before, setting up the country’s first retail
mortgage finance company. Over the years, while remaining focused on our mortgage business, we seized every opportunity that came along with the opening up of the Indian financial sector. This enabled us to diversify into an array of financial services under the HDFC umbrella.
We possibly could not have gone so far without the support of our
shareholders. In particular, we value shareholders who understand
the importance of having a long-term perspective and those who
have the wherewithal to tide over market volatility and global
uncertainty. No company is immune to irrational swings in the
global markets, yet it is in these very times that the true worth of a company is tested.
At HDFC, we have always been conservative in our lending practices. At a time when a large segment of the Indian financial system has gone through the wringer on account of weakening
asset quality, HDFC has weathered the storm. Part of the reason for
this is the very nature of our business. Our customers are mostly
first-time homebuyers. They already have a large equity in their home
and the Indian psyche is still debt averse, preferring to pay off their loans
ahead of schedule. But this should not undermine the fact that a great deal of hard work and intense follow-up is needed to constantly build high quality assets.
In the recent period, we have often been asked whether we traded growth for asset quality. In normal conditions there should be no trade-off. We consciously opted to be more cautious owing to increased stress in certain sectors. Given the macro-economic stability, we believed this phase would be temporary.
Our stance now seems vindicated.
We remain committed in weighing our options in favour of the long-term interests of our Corporation. This is
not always easy since all companies face pressures of quarterly reporting and the unfortunate consequence
of short-termism that goes with it! One hopes that there will be some regulatory rethinking on this front,
especially given the immense time that boards and management are now compelled to spend on
compliances.
So if FY16 was focused on strengthening our resilience, we look forward to the future with a sense of
guarded optimism. We are now more assured that a pick-up in the investment cycle is imminent. We take
solace from the fact that the authorities are strongly committed to resolving issues of high non-performing
loans within the banking system and concerted efforts are being made to reduce excessive corporate
leverage, particularly in the infrastructure and real estate sector.
The other reason for our optimism is the immense support and focus that the government has placed on
housing, real estate markets and urbanisation. The enhanced tax benefits for first-time homebuyers is a
welcome measure, as were tax incentives to encourage developers to increase the supply of affordable
housing.
The biggest breakthrough, however, has been the enactment of the Real Estate (Regulation and
Development) Act, 2016. After years of resistance, the real estate regulator may finally see the light of day.
The regulator will facilitate standardisation of norms in the real estate sector and will bring in the
much-needed consumer protection as well.
How the Act gets implemented in each state is still to be seen and this may take some time. Nevertheless,
these are steps in the right direction. It is true that unlike other sectoral regulators, the real estate regulator
will neither have price determining powers nor will it have control over the clearances and approvals needed
by developers for their projects. Fortunately, the government has recognised that developers cannot be
hauled up for not adhering to stipulated timelines if approvals are not granted on time. In this regard, the
Ministry of Urban Development has committed to shifting towards online approvals. Timely implementation
is now critical.
The present government has completed two years in office. It was a government that came to power on the
promise of reducing corruption in the country. There has been good progress with top level, large-scale
corruption having been weeded out. Measures like government tendering through e-auctions and
government-to-government deals for large procurements instills confidence in the regime. One hopes that
this demonstrative effect will quickly percolate down to the state and local authority levels.
In a sector like real estate where multiple approvals are required, embarking on a digital platform to grant
approvals will be a significant game changer for the industry. It will bring in discipline to grant approvals in
a time-bound manner and will remove any element of discretion. A regime unshackled from speed money
and inordinate delays may be the greatest service rendered to a home buyer.
The other factor that can improve affordability is bringing down the cost of land. Merely reducing interest
rates is not sufficient. As banks and housing finance companies are not permitted to fund land transactions,
this gap is mainly being met by non-banking financial companies and foreign private equity players who fund
these transactions at exorbitant rates.
If the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) were to permit housing finance companies and banks to fund land
transactions – at least land that is being used for residential purposes, it could substantially bring down
overall costs for the end consumer. This has been a long-standing demand. With sufficient checks and
balances by the RBI and permitting more players to fund land transactions responsibly, the government’s
objective of affordable housing can be fulfilled.
One hopes that regulators will also be more open to ideas of accessing new funding sources. A quarter of
the world’s economy now has negative interest rates, so savers are keenly searching for higher yielding, safe
assets. The time is right to explore ways in which these savings can be tapped to fund specific pools of home
loans in India. This is not risky as there is tangible security in terms of the mortgaged properties. While there
should be prudent policies, regulators do need to be less timid and allow such cross border transactions.
To conclude, we are excited about working towards listing our fourth entity within the HDFC group.
Meanwhile, we will also stay focused on nurturing our fledglings Credila - the education finance company,
The HDFC School, HDFC Realty and our real estate portal, HDFC RED. These entities should over time create
value for our shareholders. At HDFC, we will continue to review our group entities and see how we can
optimally synthesise resources and organisational structures to maximise shareholder returns. As always,
we remain steadfast to this commitment.
