It gives me great pleasure to share with you an update on the overall
performance of your Company in 2016-17. It was yet another difficult
year for the global economy, characterised by low growth and geopolitical
uncertainties. In India, rural demand continued to be sluggish in the early
part of the year on the back of two consecutive poor monsoons.The overall
market showed signs of recovery in the latter half of the year but faced a
temporary slowdown in November due to demonetisation.
In this challenging business environment, Hindustan Unilever Limited
(HUL) delivered a resilient performance in 2016-17. This was enabled
by our 4G model of growth - consistent, competitive, profitable and
responsible growth. We believe that this model, particularly in times of
uncertainty, is in the best long-term interest of all our stakeholders and a
good indication of a robust strategy.
In the year under review, our Domestic Consumer business grew 4% with
1% underlying volume growth. EBITDA margin expanded by 38 bps and
saw an improvement for the sixth consecutive year. Profit after tax before
exceptional items, PAT (bei), grew by 3% to ` 4247 Crores and Net Profit
at ` 4490 Crores was up 9%. The strong track record of cash generation
was sustained. The Board of Directors have proposed a final dividend of
` 10 per share, subject to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual
General Meeting. Together with an interim dividend of ` 7 per share, the
total dividend for the financial year ended 31st March, 2017 amounts to
` 17 per share.
Each of our businesses had an important role to play in delivering these
strong results. In Home Care, growth was driven by premium Fabric Wash
as Surf excel sustained its volume-led growth momentum and remains
the biggest brand in the Company portfolio. Vim liquid continued to drive
market development of the emerging premium household cleaning
segment. The Water portfolio was expanded with the launch of the
Reverse Osmosis (RO) range and was well-received by consumers.
The Personal Care business continued to lead trends across all categories
with a particularly strong performance in Hair Care and Lakmé colour
cosmetics. In addition to driving our core business, we strengthened
our presence in fast-growing segments of the market. We led the
premiumisation of the Skin Care market with new launches on all our
skin brands –Lakmé, Fair & Lovely and Pond’s. In the growing ‘naturals’
segment, we launched a new and expanded range of authentic Ayurvedic
Personal Care products under the LEVER Ayush brand name. Similarly,
we entered the Baby segment with the launch of Baby Dove.
Our Foods business continued its focus on strong market building
initiatives. To extend our appeal to young adults, Kissan launched a
new range of ‘khatta meetha’ jams in Berry, Strawberry and Orange
flavours. Knorr expanded its international range with the launch of Italian
Mushroom soup, Hong Kong Manchow Noodles soup and Shanghai Hot
& Sour Chicken soup.
In the Refreshments category, Tea sustained broad-based growth by
differentially leveraging its portfolio across the country. Coffee continued
on its premiumisation agenda with BRU, while Ice Creams and Frozen
Desserts exited the year with robust innovation led growth.
One of the major strengths of your Company is the relentless focus on
execution and productivity and this helped us to sustain brand investments
at competitive levels, while significantly improving margins. Our
‘Winning in Many Indias’ (WIMI) organisational initiative has made us
even more agile and responsive to a rapidly evolving marketplace with
intensified competition, channel fragmentation and an increasingly
segmented consumer base.
Technology and mobile connectivity are rapidly changing consumer
behaviour and business processes. We continued to lead the digital transformation within our organisation and leverage our IT capabilities
to drive competitive advantage. We grew strongly in the fast emerging
e-commerce channel even as we adopted sophisticated IT solutions to
improve our reach and service to millions of small retailers across the
length and breadth of India. Technology is also enabling us to better
understand our consumers. For instance, our Consumer and Market
Insights group has created a People Data Centre that analyses trends
from social media, consumer care-lines and digital marketing to turn
millions of ‘conversations’ into business decisions that optimise sales
and revenue.
Our Sales and Marketing initiatives were ably supported by our world-class
Supply Chain. In 2016, we set up a new state-of-the-art manufacturing
facility in Doom Dooma, Assam. This project, christened ‘Project Rhino’,
went from concept to commissioning in just ten months and is an excellent
example of operational excellence and a relentless bias for action.
Even as we expand our operations, we remain equally committed to the
Unilever Sustainable Living Plan (USLP) and driving our environmental
and social agenda through our brands and corporate actions. Lifebuoy,
Domex and Pureit continued to lead our initiatives in the areas of hygiene,
sanitation and safe drinking water. Through our ‘Swachh Aadat, Swachh
Bharat’ programme, we supported the Indian government’s Swachh
Bharat Abhiyan (Clean India Mission) and promoted good health and
hygiene practices in communities across the country. Our efforts in the
area of health and well-being reached over 130 million people by the end
of 2016.
In line with our USLP goals, we took significant steps to further reduce
waste, water consumption and energy usage in our factories and offices.
The share of renewable energy used by us increased to 28% through
several innovative initiatives such as converting our agricultural process
waste into consumable fuel. In our Sumerpur unit, we are using solar
energy that meets 80% of power requirement for most of the daylight
hours. This increase in use of renewable energy and reduction in
energy consumption has helped in reducing the carbon foot-print of our
manufacturing locations by 13% over the previous year. Equally, initiatives
such as reuse of treated effluent water and rain water utilisation have
helped in lowering water consumption across our factories by 9% over
the previous year. In the last five years, per tonne of production, our
energy consumption has reduced by over 30% and water consumption
has reduced by 40%.
None of these achievements would have been possible without the
passion and commitment of our employees - our biggest asset. During
2016, we launched a major initiative – ‘Connected 4 Growth’, which strives
to further empower our people and creates an organisation that is even
more consumer and customer-centric, faster and more efficient.
I am pleased to report that our focus on Human Resources development,
yet again, ensured that we are chosen as the ‘No. 1 Employer of Choice’
by students across premier B-schools in the Nielsen survey. We have
been ranked in the Top 10 by ‘The Best Companies for Women in India’
(BCWI) Study 2016. These are all recognitions of our ability to attract and
retain the best talent and our commitment to a diverse and inclusive work
culture.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank each and every employee as
well as those who work with us across the value chain for their unstinting
support and hard work in the service of our Company. I would also like
to thank you, our shareholders, for your continued trust in the business.
