Dear Shareholders,
It gives me great pleasure to share with you an update on the
performance of your Company for the year 2017-18. It was a
transformative year with the introduction of the Goods and
Services Tax (GST), an important development that has created a
single national market and will benefit both consumers as well
as the industry including the Consumer Goods sector. While
trade conditions remained volatile during early implementation,
they have since stabilised and there is a gradual improvement in
overall demand.
In this challenging business environment, your Company
delivered a strong performance. Our ‘Winning in Many Indias’
(WiMi) and ‘Connected 4 Growth’ (C4G) initiatives have made us
more agile, customer centric and responsive to the diverse and
rapidly evolving marketplace. Our 4G model of growth - consistent,
competitive, profitable and responsible, continues to serve us
well and 2017-18 was the seventh consecutive year of both
topline growth and margin improvement.
In the year under review, our Domestic Consumer business on
comparable basis, grew by 12% driven by an underlying volume
growth of 6%. EBITDA margin on a comparable basis, expanded
by 155 bps. Profit after tax before exceptional items grew by
21% to ` 5,135 crores and Net Profit at ` 5,237 crores was up
17%. The strong track record of cash generation was sustained.
The Board of Directors have proposed a final dividend of
` 12 per share, subject to the approval of the shareholders at the
Annual General Meeting. Together with an interim dividend of
` 8 per share, the total dividend for the financial year ended
31st March, 2018 amounts to ` 20 per share.
Each of our businesses and functions played an important
role in delivering these strong results. In Home Care, we
accelerated our growth momentum and further strengthened
our competitive position. Surf excel delivered another year
of outstanding performance driven by volume growth and
premiumisation. Rin detergent bar was upgraded using a patented
‘smart-foam’ technology that saves up to two buckets of water in
every washing cycle, and is being extended to key markets after
a successful test launch in Maharashtra. We also continued to
innovate and invest behind nascent categories like Household
Care and Fabric Conditioners with excellent results.
In Personal Care, both Personal Products and Personal Wash
delivered strong growth. We continued to strengthen our core
portfolio through innovations, lead market development in
segments of the future and stepped up our presence in the fast-
growing ‘naturals’ segment. Hair Care sustained its strong growth
momentum, several new innovations were launched in premium
Skin Care and Lakmé became the latest brand to cross the ` 1,000
crore mark. In Naturals, Indulekha Hair Oil delivered excellent
results and the brand was extended to shampoos, ‘LEVER ayush’
was launched and rapidly rolled out nationally, and several ‘natural’
variants were launched as an extension to our core brands.
Our Foods business performed well with continued focus on strong
brand and market building initiatives. Innovations such as the
Knorr Italian ‘Margherita’ and ‘Cheese and Herbs’ variants were
introduced in select geographies and are ready for expansion.
In Refreshments, we reclaimed market leadership in tea by
differentially leveraging our portfolio of brands across the country.
Coffee continued its premiumisation initiatives with BRU, while
innovative launches and geographical expansion boosted our
fast-growing Ice Creams and Frozen Desserts business.
Our sales and distribution system, with an unrivalled national
presence across traditional and modern trade channels, remains
a key competitive advantage. We continued to expand our direct
coverage and leverage technology and intelligent analytics
to significantly enhance our customer service and on-shelf
availability. The Company also continued to make significant
investments in building capabilities to win in channels of the
future and substantial progress is being made particularly in the
fast-growing e-commerce channel.
Our world-class supply chain continued its relentless focus on
driving quality, customer service and cost effectiveness across
the value chain. Customer service levels reached upwards of
95% while savings in costs and cash were at a record high, which
helped the business to invest behind growth and still deliver a
healthy margin improvement.
We remain committed to the Unilever Sustainable Living
Plan (USLP) to drive growth and at the same time, create a
positive social impact. We continued with our initiatives in the
areas of hygiene, sanitation and safe drinking water and over
140 million people have benefitted from the Lifebuoy
Handwashing Programme, Domex Toilet Academy and Pureit
safe drinking water. Through our Swachh Aadat curriculum, we
reached out to students in over 1,200 primary schools to teach
them hygienic habits of washing hands with soap, adopting safe
drinking water practices and using clean toilets.
In line with our USLP goals, we took significant steps to
further reduce waste, water consumption, energy usage and
CO 2 emissions in our factories and offices. We increased the
renewable energy share in our manufacturing to 36% with a
clear objective of improving it even further through increased
utilisation of traditional biofuels like agricultural waste.
To address the challenges of depleting water resources,
Hindustan Unilever Foundation, along with its partners, have
created a water conservation potential of over 450 billion litres.
We are in a rapidly changing world where burgeoning digital
connectivity and ubiquity of data is reshaping the value creation
model across industries. We continue to lead the digital
transformation with significant investments in advanced data
analytics, automation, robotics and artificial intelligence across
the whole value chain. We are collaborating with experts,
cultivating an entrepreneurial mindset in our employees and
driving transformative experiments to unlock value in our journey
from mass marketing to massive customisation.
Overall, it was another year of sustained high performance
with considerable achievements across our business. None
of this would have been possible without the dedication and
determination of our people. Our employee engagement scores
continued to be at a record high and we once again emerged
as the employer of choice amongst leading business school
students across the country.
I have had the good fortune and privilege to serve this great
Company as a Chairman for the last thirteen years. As I bid
farewell, I would like to thank each and every employee and those
working with us across the value chain for their commitment
and service to the Company. I would also like to thank the Board
of Directors for their unstinted support throughout my tenure.
Most importantly, I would like to thank you, our shareholders,
for your overwhelming trust and confidence that helped to
uncompromisingly pursue an agenda that was in the long-term
interest of the Company.
It’s my pleasure to pass on the baton to Sanjiv Mehta. I am
confident that under his leadership and your support, the
Company will reach even greater heights.
