It gives me great pleasure to share with you an update on the overall performance of your Company. In a challenging external environment, your Company performed well and delivered another year of consistent, competitive, profitable and responsible growth. With a deep understanding of consumer insights, your Company continued to drive innovation across brands and operations and adapted the go-to-market strategies, taking into account the diversity of many Indias and the evolving channels of distribution. Simultaneously, we recognised the need for responsible growth and focused on creating greener and more efficient manufacturing with cleaner fuels, more efficient energy consumption and lesser generation of waste. We remained committed to our purpose of making sustainable living commonplace across the value chain.
In the year under review, we saw considerable changes in the external business environment. While commodity costs and inflation continued to come down, the second consecutive monsoon failure and resulting drought meant a distressed rural demand scenario in several parts of the country. Competition, both international and local, continued to be aggressive. In this scenario, your Company remained focused on delivering volume-led profitable growth.
Our Domestic Consumer business grew by 4% with an impressive 6% underlying volume growth. Reported growth was impacted by phase out of excise benefits and one-off credits, which had a negative impact of 110 bps. Profit before interest and tax (PBIT) grew by 10% with PBIT margin improving 90 bps, despite an adverse impact of 50 bps on PBIT, again as a consequence of the phase out of excise benefits and one-off credits. The consistent improvement in margins was delivered even as we continued to make significant investments behind our brands (A&P was up 160 bps). Profit after tax but before exceptional items, PAT (bei), grew by 6% to Rs. 4,078 crores. Net Profit was at Rs. 4,082 crores, with the growth rate impacted by the higher exceptional income arising from subsidiary and property related sales in the previous year. The strong track record of cash generation was sustained with cash from operations exceeding Rs. 5,000 crores for yet another year. The Board of Directors have proposed a final dividend of Rs. 9.5 per share, subject to the approval of the shareholders at the AGM. Together with the interim dividend of Rs. 6.5 per share, the total dividend for the financial year ending 31st March, 2016 amounts to Rs. 16 per share.
Each of our businesses and functions had
a strong role to play in delivering these
robust results. In Soaps & Detergents,
due to soft commodity prices, your
Company acted proactively and took
decisive pricing actions resulting in
volumes growing ahead of the market. We
strengthened our competitive position in
Laundry against both global players as
well as a plethora of local players. Surf
excel became the largest detergent brand
for your Company, with its iconic
positioning of ‘Daag Achche Hain’
continuing to build brand equity. Lifebuoy
and Dove delivered strong volume gains
and Lux was relaunched with a
significantly improved mix. Simultaneously,
we continued to successfully drive market
development of nascent segments like
fabric conditioners, liquid dish-wash and
hand-wash.
Personal Products performance was
powered by renovations across many of
the core brands including Clinic Plus,
Pond’s and Pepsodent, as well as some
exciting new introductions like Lakme Lip
Love, Fair & Lovely BB Cream, Dove
Oxygen Moisture and new fragrances in the Axe Signature range. In keeping with
emerging trends in the market, we
relaunched Ayush and have recently
acquired Indulekha hair oil to strengthen
our presence in the ‘naturals’ segment.
Overall, we maintained our strong
position in Personal Products by growing
the core and simultaneously leading the
development of emerging segments like
hair conditioners and colour cosmetics.
Our Foods and Beverages business
delivered another year of strong volume-
led growth. Knorr extended its range with
the launch of Knorr Chef Masalas while
Kissan launched a premium range of
jams and dressings. Our tea portfolio was
strengthened with the introduction of
some customised products for different
parts of India. In Ice creams, we continued
to widen the appeal of our core brands
like Cornetto and Magnum with the
launch of Cornetto Mini and Magnum
Choco Brownie.
One of the major strengths of your
Company is the relentless focus on
execution and cost efficiencies. To
strengthen our presence in the evolving
channels, we created new shopper and
customer programmes in drug stores and
food outlets with a sharp segmentation of
portfolio and shoppers. We have also
been investing in building world-class
organisational capabilities to lead in the
emerging fast growing e-commerce
channel. Additionally, our continuous
improvement programmes across the
value chain helped us generate sustained
cost savings that were invested behind
our brands and operations.
We are harnessing technology to build
leading edge operational and marketing
capabilities with initiatives such as
LiveWire - an innovative analytical
platform that taps the potential of Big
Data. We also launched the People Data
Centre that provides insights into
consumer trends, capturing all
engagements on our brands in the social
media, and enabling real-time
personalised communication with our
consumers.
Most importantly, our brands and
operations continued to be held together
by the firm belief of ‘doing well by doing
good’. In line with our commitment to
create a more sustainable future, 100% of
the palm oil and tomatoes used in
manufacturing our products, were
sourced sustainably. In our
manufacturing units, the CO 2 emissions
per tonne of production was reduced by
42% and water usage (cubic metre per
tonne of production) reduced by 48%
when compared to the 2008 baseline. We
have achieved zero non-hazardous waste
to landfill for all our factories and depots.
Our WASH (Water, Sanitation and
Hygiene) initiatives contribute significantly
to the Government’s ‘Clean India Mission’.
To address the challenge of water
shortage in parts of the country,
Hindustan Unilever Foundation continues
to pioneer programs that successfully
created a cumulative water conservation
potential of over 200 billion litres by the
end of 2015.
Hindustan Unilever’s key differentiator is
the quality of talent we attract, retain and
develop. I am pleased to report that your
Company retained the position of ‘No. 1
Employer of Choice’ in premier Business
Schools (Nielsen survey) for the fifth
consecutive year. We also made steady
progress in improving gender balance
across all functions, an important
business priority for us.
In ending, I would like to take this
opportunity to thank each and every one
of our employees whose commitment and
hard work helped deliver another
successful year. I would also like to thank
you, all our shareholders, for your
continued support in our journey to
deliver value to all our stakeholders.
