Dear Stakeholder,
We live in extraordinary times. Technology is
reshaping our world in a fundamental way : new
CPUs from Intel built on 14 nanometer processor
technology deliver unprecedented performance
and analysts recently reported that hardware unit
sales for cloud are approaching those for enterprise.
Technology companies are making cars and watches,
and creating new kinds of transportation, hospitality,
retail, insurance, and other services, disrupting entire
industries. And recently, a fleet of driverless trucks
made by various vendors, drove thousands of miles
across Europe, demonstrating vividly that the end of
a key job category is upon us. The world of our future
looks vastly different from what we see today – an
increasingly digital world, a deeply connected world,
a collaborative world.
It was clear nearly two years ago, and today it is
starkly clear, that given this digital transformation
of our world, the traditional services industry of the
past, in which we compete to do the same work
cheaper but with world-class quality, must also
transform. A services company must be more, and
we, Infoscions, as individuals and as a company,
must be more. We must instead become a company
that delivers value and innovation. Our context has
fundamentally, and irreversibly, changed, and we
cannot go back to the approaches and methods of
the past. The imperatives, and the opportunities,
are clear.
It is with this new reality in mind that we embraced
three simple ideas in our strategy : renew ourselves
and help our clients renew their businesses; drive
innovation and new opportunities in our business
and with our clients; and do all of this based on a
culture of education and collaboration. Indeed,
when we think about it, this blueprint applies to all
businesses.
Renew is about being better. Better than we have
been. Automation is a key part of this. It is how
we improve solutions to the known, well-defined
problems and improve the businesses we are already
in. It is about driving grassroots innovation in every
project and in every service. The repetitive tasks
can be automated by bringing Artificial Intelligence
to our existing services and existing customer
landscapes, so that we fundamentally transform cost
and productivity. And we set a lofty benchmark for
this : if we have done something once, we should not
do it again. It can be automated.
New is about being different. This is the breakthrough
innovation. It is about finding problems that we
don’t easily have words to describe, that no one
has defined. It is the unknown problems. It is about
leveraging automation to digitize our physical world,
and using Design Thinking to focus on the empathy,
the problem-finding, which uncovers new markets,
for us and for our clients.
And our Culture is all about education. It is staying
true to who we are. It is the idea of ‘being improving’,
where we constantly build upon what we already
know. Education is how we drive our strategy – it
helps us learn new techniques to automate the
things we understand, and it gives us the mindset
to discover the things that we do not yet know. It is
how we work. It is not the innovation lab that drives
all the big ideas, it is to enable and empower every
Infoscion to be an innovator. This bedrock of our
culture, this learnability – as Mr. Murthy always said,
to me, and to all of us – an ability to learn, is as true
and critical for our future as it has ever been.
On AI specifically, people often ask me if all this
automation, this AI, will lead to human obsolescence,
and the elimination of jobs. It is my emphatic view,
having studied AI at the feet of some of its great
pioneers, that this is not the case. AI, like all great
technologies and tools that have come before it,
can and should amplify people – enabling us to
focus on the creative work, the imaginative work.
The driverless trucks that I mentioned did things
we humans simply cannot do, e.g. ‘platooning’; we
don’t have the mechanical precision or the reflexes
for it; we do, however, have the imagination and the
knowledge to build the software and systems for
driverless trucks, and to govern their safe operation.
Technology can and must be the great amplifier of
our human potential, our humanity. It is why we focus
on education and learning; it is why we participate in
OpenAI and other initiatives to develop and advance
AI openly, to help bring its benefits to all of us.
It has been more than one year since we outlined
this Renew and New strategy for consistent and
profitable growth of the company. I am happy to
share with you the progress we have made so far on
the execution of our strategy.
In the financial year 2016, our revenues grew in
rupee terms by 17.1% to ` 62,441 crore. In dollar
terms, our revenues grew during the year by 9.1%
to US $9,501 million and in constant currency terms,
revenues grew by 13.3%. For the financial year 2016,
our operating profit margin was 25.0% and net profit
margin was 21.6%. During the year, earnings per
share grew by 9.4% in rupee terms and 1.9% in dollar
terms. Our operating cash flows were healthy during
the year and we ended the year with liquid assets of
US $5,202 million (` 34,468 crore).
We focused on effective strategy execution during the
year, and I am happy to report that several indicators
of strategy execution have improved. For example, our large deal wins have improved significantly
during the year, demonstrating, I believe, that the
renewal of our existing core services, together with
all the new things we can bring, are helping us to
differentiate on value, not cost. The total contract
value of large deals won during the year increased by
45% to US $2.8 billion this year. Similarly, due to our
focused client engagement and value creation, the
revenue from top clients improved during the year.
Top 10 clients grew by 12.3% in constant currency
and top 25 clients grew by 9.3% in constant currency
for the year. The measures that we deployed to
deepen employee engagement have begun to show
results, with attrition coming down to 13.6% this year
from 18.9% last year.
Our efforts towards increase in per capita revenue
improvement through productivity improvement
and automation are in early stages. During the year,
we released nearly 4,000 full-time employees from
projects as a result of automation of underlying
services. We will continue to focus on this crucial
front. We have several additional levers to further
enhance operational efficiency, such as utilization,
onsite effort mix, onsite employee cost and sub-
contractor expenses, which we plan to optimize.
Behind these numbers is the work of several
transformational initiatives that Pravin and I started
over the last 21 months. We set out to renew and
bring entirely new ideas to everything – from our
processes, to training and curriculum, to marketing,
to onboarding, to large deals, to the bench, to our
ecosystem, and more. And the results we see are
many of these initiatives beginning to take hold and
flourish.
We see this in the renewal of ourselves internally,
to drive innovation and create value. I am most
proud of initiatives such as Zero Distance, in which
the teams working in more than 7,000 master
projects at Infosys have found and continue to
find incremental innovation – looking beyond the
SOW, to add value. With this initiative, under the
passionate leadership of Ravi, our delivery teams
learn and live being innovators rather than order-
takers. Our work on this is not done, and in the
coming year, I look forward to taking our grassroots
innovation to new levels. From BPO to Product
Engineering, from Business Intelligence to Digital,
from Application Development and Maintenance to
Cloud Infrastructure Services, we have embarked on
a great renewal of all of our services with automation
and pervasive grassroots innovation, founded on a
culture of collaboration and openness.
We have trained over 80,000 employees in Design
Thinking, in what is surely the largest ever corporate
training program for Design Thinking. It is about
building creative confidence, as David Kelley
describes it, in every Infoscion. About learning to ask
questions, to challenge the status quo, to look inside
the work we are doing and find new problems to
solve. Going forward, we will bring Design Thinking
to every facet of our work; it will help us deploy our
bandwidth that automation helps us save towards
innovation and value-creation for clients and for us;
and it will help us engage our clients in their most
strategic areas – areas we have rarely worked in.
We introduced Zero Bench in July 2015, an initiative
to eradicate the bench – a construct of our industry
that, 21 months later, I still cannot accept – from our
company and our industry, creating a marketplace
inside Infosys so that people awaiting longer-term
assignments continue to add value to Infosys and
our clients. In just nine months, by the end of the
financial year 2016, more than 12,000 jobs had been
created on our Zero Bench marketplace, and more
than 67% of folks on the bench had completed at
least one of these!
We improved employee engagement, creating a
new performance management system in which
managers provide continuous feedback and
an ongoing dialog about performance. We are
improving our processes, slowly but surely to ease
the way employees work. We ourselves are one of
the first users of Infosys Mana, to automate and
simplify our mission-critical travel process. And we
are investing in employees, not just in training, skills
development and the overall employee experience,
but investing to drive retention and attract the
best leaders through the new stock incentive plan
for employees. We are also investing in the Virtual
Global Delivery Model, and in our workspaces, to
help further our teams’ ability to collaborate and to
deliver value to clients across boundaries.
In all of these things, I want to point out our efforts
in developing a culture of collaboration, with Zero
Distance as a great example of many, such as the
tremendous work of our finance team under the
leadership of my colleague and friend Ranga – the
leader of a world-class finance organization which is
both improving our processes and our collaboration,
while upholding the utmost standards of governance
and compliance set by our founders. Collaboration
makes us exponentially more powerful and faster.
Competition, on the other hand, a very human
tendency of ours, is best when aimed at competing with our past selves, the way we used to be, rather
than looking backwards towards others. I believe this
leverage of collaboration and competition can best
help us create the company we aspire to be, even
while competitors increasingly emulate us.
I believe these internal efforts to renew and bring
innovation have led to the steep decline in attrition
compared to where we were two years ago. While
our work to build an extraordinary workplace for
Infoscions as innovators is far from done, these
are good signs. When I walk around our beautiful
campuses, and feel the energy of many reinvigorated
Infoscions, when I listen to the passion in the voice,
and the glint in the eyes of a 31-year-old project
manager beaming with a Zero Distance idea, more
than any of the numbers, I feel reassured that we are
on the right path.
Turning to what and how we deliver to our clients – we
took big steps in the financial year 2016 by bringing a
combination of automation and innovation, powered
by education, to clients, and are now building on
this work.
We launched our Aikidō service offerings, renewing
our existing service lines and introducing new types
of services. In Aikidō, we are helping our clients
capture the knowledge and know-how and renew
their organizations (Ki); leverage open, intelligent
platforms to drive new opportunities through new
kinds of applications (Ai); and bring design-led
services that help clients find their most important
problems to solve with Design Thinking (Dō).
And now bringing these services together with our
Infosys Mana platform, our purposeful approach to
AI, we can help our clients reinvent the continual
reinvention of their system landscapes. We can
lower the cost of maintenance for both physical and
digital systems; capture the know-how of people
and fragmented and complex systems across
generations; simplify the continuous renovation of
core business processes; and enable businesses
to bring new and delightful experiences to their
customers and end-users.
We refocused consulting to be the tip of our spear,
and as part of this charter, I am pleased to see Design
Thinking as a key fabric of our work, making its way
into each and every client engagement.
We brought the Infosys Information Platform
(IIP) to clients in a big way, and created entirely
new opportunities resulting in discussions or
implementations for more than 200 clients using our open, intelligent cloud-based analytics platform, to define breakthrough solutions from their diverse
data sources. Both IIP and IAP are now a part of the
broader Mana platform. Our EdgeVerve subsidiary
continues to lead our all-important software front.
Panaya, Skava and EdgeVerve continued to add
value for our clients and for us. Our philosophy of
organic first, then external hiring, then investments,
and then mergers and acquisitions is, I believe, the
right balance for Infosys. Under Ritika’s leadership,
we made several investments, and three acquisitions.
On investments, we will continue to carefully deploy
our capital on innovative companies that are
inventing the future. On acquisitions, we will continue
to consider companies that help us advance our
cause, and where there is a matching of purpose and
passion; we will not buy revenue or ‘market share’ in
markets of yesterday.
And as importantly as the work we do with clients
and internally, we continued to have a deep focus
on contributing to the world around us, in our
communities, in the proud and yet humble work we
do through our foundations. Our Infosys Foundation,
led by the exemplary Mrs. Murty, continued to set
new standards in bringing help to those in need
across a wide spectrum of needs and regions in
India. The Infosys Science Foundation, a purposeful
support of the advances in basic sciences that our
founders have so passionately believed in and led,
has continued its great work. And our young Infosys
Foundation USA, which under Vandana’s leadership
emerged, in the words of the White House Office of
Science and Technology Policy’s senior advisor, is
already becoming a force, reaching out to as many
people as possible in the all-important frontiers
of bringing computer science education and
making to all. And on a larger scale, our amazing facilities team led by the incomparable Ramadas Kamath broke new grounds and new frontiers in
sustainability and innovation – including moving our
Hyderabad campus completely off the grid, a solar
powered campus serving 15,000+ Infoscions!
And yet, as we look ahead, we can clearly see that
we are barely at the start of where we need to go.
Like any large-scale transformation, metamorphosis
– as our Chairman Sesh, who took over this year
from my mentor and the quintessential leader-
entrepreneur Mr. Kamath, calls it – will take time.
We have started to implement the changes that will
drive our transformation. But it cannot be the valiant
efforts of a few warriors within Infosys. The world
as we knew it has been transformed. Add to this
the extreme cost pressure on our clients due to the
disruptions they face, including entirely new types
of competitors, and in turn, the pricing pressure this
brings to the services industry. We must massively
scale our innovation and drive our strategy in every
aspect in our company. All of you, our stakeholders,
some of whom have been with us for many years, are
an integral part of our journey, in empowering our
people and our company to be more.
If we can execute our strategy, and do the things we
must learn to do, the year, and the years, ahead of us
could be deeply rewarding, and I look forward to a
great journey ahead, together.
