Our primary objective is to help
address and solve our clients’
business and technology challenges
to enable them to better serve their
customers, grow, and improve their
profitability. With that in mind, we
have set for ourselves the goal of
increasing our relevance to our
clients. The more we succeed in
that, the more likely we are to create
increased value for our shareholders.
Today, our clients – large enterprises
and government organizations – are
at different points in their digital
journey. We are positioning our
capabilities to help them navigate
their next, across the different
dimensions of this journey.
Over the past few months, I’ve spent
time extensively with our clients
and with our employees. Each one
of the 48 clients I met during the
previous quarter is a strong believer
in our long-standing, market-leading,
service delivery strength. In fact,
they are keen that we build upon
our knowledge of their technology
foundation and support them on their
digital journey. I also learnt about
the sense of tremendous pride our
employees have in their work for
our clients.
To increase our relevance to our
clients, we have embarked on our
strategy of ‘Navigate your next’.
To achieve this, we have defined the
following four strategic imperatives :
1. Scale Agile Digital
2. Energize the core
3. Re-skill our employees, and
4. Localize in our key markets
Our clients are moving rapidly on
their digital journey. We have built,
over the years, a formidable position
in the digital space – US$ 2.79 billion
of our revenue in fiscal 2018 came
from these digital services. Our
digital framework drives business
outcomes for our clients across
five areas – Experience, Insight,
Innovate, Accelerate, and Assure.
This reflects how we are thinking
about our clients’ journey as they
make progress through their digital
transformation. This also guides our
own aspirations and efforts to build
digital capability in service of our
clients’ needs.
Our core business is the cornerstone
of our company and the critical
element that has helped us build
enormous client trust and loyalty.
With advances in artificial intelligence
and automation, we have the ability
to make these core services even
more efficient and effective for our
clients. Our Nia platform is a critical
element in this landscape.
In working alongside our clients on
their digital journey, we are actively
working with our employees to
enable their re-skilling. Our platform,
Lex, makes learning accessible,
relevant, fun, and drives outcomes
that matter. Increasingly, we are
taking this learning to our client
organizations as well.
We are embarking on building
more local capabilities, especially in
America, Europe, and Australia, to
ensure we expand our relevance to
our clients. We announced our first
campus for development and training
in Indiana, US, and innovation hubs in
other cities.
With the articulation of our strategic
direction, we have launched a
transformation program for the
company to drive the execution of
the initiatives that will help us achieve
the outcomes envisaged. This is a
three-year transformation program
that will help position Infosys for
increased client relevance.
Our fiscal 2018 results are
detailed in this annual report and
demonstrate the underlying strength
of our business. Our revenue was
US$ 10.9 billion, which grew at
5.8% in constant currency from
the previous year. Our operating
margin was 24.3% and profit
after tax was US$ 2.5 billion. Cash
provided by operating activities was
US$ 2.3 billion.
Thank you to each one of our 1,200
clients! Their trust and belief in us
has enabled us to be the company
we are.
The dedication of our over 2,00,000
employees to drive outcomes for our
clients is a testament to the results
we have shown in fiscal 2018 and the
continuing strength of our institution.
Thank you to each one of them.
Our exceptional leadership team
has helped steer the company
through the past several years and
also helped design our strategic
framework and the transformation
program. My thanks to them for their
energy and commitment in helping
me operationalize our strategy.
Today, as I look out of the window
in my office at the lush green
trees across our stunning campus
in Bengaluru, I feel a sense of
excitement – at the opportunities in
the technology world as our clients
are moving on their digital journey
and the consequent opportunity
for us to help them navigate their
next. I feel a sense of pride at the
incredible institution that has been
built over the past 37 years that gives
us a strong foundation for what we
can create in the future.
