Financial Year 2016-17 was
an eventful year with Brexit,
President Trump’s victory,
demonetisation of the Indian
currency and of course
results of the UP elections.
The theme of good macro
but a challenging micro
continued to play out.
Private investment cycle is
yet to pick up, while public
investment is gaining some traction.
Formal financial savings are getting a huge
fillip due to positive real interest rates
and impact of demonetisation, leading to
growth of the formal sector at the cost
of the informal sector. Household and
other savings are moving from gold and
real estate to formal financial savings.
The resulting reduced demand for gold
manifested itself through a drop in gold
imports by over 20%. Also sales of land
and residential real estate have slowed
down.
This is a long-term beneficial trend for
financial services across the board -
Banking, Asset Management, Insurance,
and Capital Markets. In fact, the non-bank
businesses will grow even faster since they are growing from a smaller base and savers
will look at diversification avenues beyond
bank deposits.
Increased allocation towards formal
financial savings will also lead to a
significant money multiplier effect. This is
hugely beneficial for our nation’s economy.
The runway ahead for financial savings
growth is wide and clear for a long,
long time.
Banking industry’s current structure is
not sustainable. The system’s inability
to recognise the inconvenient truth that
banking is an economic and commercial
activity with high leverage, and that years
of ‘kicking the can down the road’ in high
risk areas, mixing of social objectives and
weak governance have all contributed to bringing this industry to a weak position.
Banking industry is one of the few where
‘errors of commission’ are significantly
more expensive than ‘errors of omission’.
At the same time, while we have relaxed
entry norms in many areas of financial
services, including banking, we need to
give more thought to mortality and exits
in this sector with potential systemic risks.
The time has now come to bite the bullet.
The state, sooner or later, may have to
make the difficult choice between putting
in more good (tax payers’) money after
bad or being open to ‘strategic’ choices.
I wonder whether that can happen now
or sometime after 2019. I also see a
diversification of the financial services
industry structure, moving beyond the
current ‘bank led’ structure.
Digital combined with Aadhaar is a
powerful combination which has the
potential to, and already has transformed
the contours of many industries in
India. The change we see taking place
in telecom is now being unleashed in
banking. Digital will enhance customer
experience, increase productivity and
reduce costs beyond belief. It will also
result in a few winners and many losers.
But the rapid innovation that digital
promises needs to be supported with
effective laws and regulations which
would need to keep pace with the
changes. These include areas of security
and privacy.
Consequently, I see significant
consolidation taking place in the financial
services industry in the next few years
either through mortality or combinations.
What does this mean for Kotak?
We must never get complacent and
always remember that if we are not
paranoid, others will eat our lunch.
Growth in financial savings works for us
across all our arms - Banking, Financing,
Asset Management, Insurance and
Capital Markets. We will try and play
an active role in reshaping the structure
of the financial services industry, be it
stressed assets or consolidation.
Further, we must grab the digital space.
The launch of 811 as ‘a digital bank’ is
inspired by the day India changed,
8/11/2016. It is a symbol of us embracing
the ‘new India’.
On the organic side, we aspire to grow at
at least two times nominal GDP growth in
most of our businesses. We need to gain
share and be relevant. And through this
we will at all times keep our principles of
prudence, simplicity and humility at the
core of who we are.
I am proud to be a part of a changing
India in which I see a big opportunity for
us to play a meaningful role.
