The last financial year saw the
Indian economy stretched between
two ends of the string, good macro
tailwinds but a difficult micro
situation.
India’s inflation, current account and fiscal deficit
were all under control, but many sectors and
individual businesses struggled. Infrastructure,
agriculture, commodities, real estate and businesses
in the rural sector had a difficult time. The urban
consumer held up well, and in my view, small and
medium businesses in urban India did better than
bigger businesses.
This scenario is likely to change from hereon. With
Brent recovering to USD 50 levels, the benefits of
lower prices will reduce, and this has the potential to
increase our current account deficit and bottoming
out of inflation. I see a well-settled government
now but it could do more to build confidence and
trust among businessmen and rekindle animal
spirits into the economy. It is time for the Indian
micro to gear up and get back into the game.
The weak underbelly of Indian banking,
something which I have been consistently
pointing out through the years, has
resurfaced strongly. Both public and some
private sector banks have revealed stress
on their balance sheets. The story is not
over yet, and we can expect to see more
bad news on this front. But it is also a fact
that banks have started cleaning up their
balance sheets.
Banks as leveraged institutions
are not private equity investors.
Currently, in many cases their
position is worse: downside risks
with no upside gains.
Recovery of money should be at the
heart of lending. Return of capital
is more important than return on
capital. If banks think they cannot
recover money, they should not lend
in the first place.
Indian recovery mechanism needs
a serious relook. If a loan gets into
trouble, recovering it should not be
a nightmare. This makes the impact
cost of loss much higher.
For the last many years, Indian banks
have been postponing the pain. To a
certain extent, this is also a fallout
of the allowances offered by policy
makers through restructuring, 5/25,
rectification under JLF etc., which
has had a ballooning effect on
exposures.
Banks were nationalised 47 years
ago. One of the reasons for this
was that private banks were lending
disproportionately to big businesses.
Access to funds from banks was
not easy for the common man.
Nationalisation was supposed to change this. Today’s irony is that
the biggest losses booked by banks,
including public sector banks (PSBs),
are on account of lending to big
businesses.
Effectively, public policy actions
supposedly done ‘in public interest’,
are instead going ‘against public
interest’.
It is time for us as a nation to define
accountability, if not for the past, at least
for the future.
As I think about the future, I believe the
Bankruptcy Code is a good step but it
will take at least a year to become fully
effective as the entire ecosystem needs to
be created. When I look at our challenges
across BIFR, SARFAESI, DRTs, DRATs, and
the judicial system, I hope we do better
this time. Good intent needs to be backed
by good people and execution.
Simultaneously, the country needs to
rethink the architecture of Indian banking
boldly.
In the overall context, our economy, which
is dependent on a 70:30 mix between
public and private sector banking, could
face headwinds because of banking
capacity constraints.
Apart from these issues, there is an
onslaught of technology which is changing
the contours of banking. It is interesting
that at the same time the banking sector
has been opened up and new players will
soon open shop. In a short time, we are
likely to see 20 to 30 new banks between
payment banks, small finance banks, and
new on-tap banks. There will be many
more new banks than before, and while this is good for capacity building, it will
come with its issues.
In India we still do not have an exit
mechanism for banks. Whenever there
was a problem, the policy makers chose
to merge the troubled entity with another
bank, in most cases a public sector bank
(PSB). Now PSBs are no more in a position
to absorb such entities easily because of
the high non-performing assets (NPAs)
which have put their capital under severe
strain. In this context, the banking industry
needs a defined framework, where
easy entry is accompanied by an exit
mechanism.
The entire banking sector therefore needs
to be reconfigured and re-engineered.
This requires political will and consensus
which is not easy. I would now like to focus on us - Kotak
Mahindra Bank. The journey has been
exciting. The most important event was
the merger of ING Vysya Bank with Kotak
Mahindra Bank on April 1, 2015. The last
financial year was the year of integration.
I am happy to inform that integration of
most of our businesses and operations,
including our technology is now
complete, and we are well on our way to
a full and complete integration by June
2016. That is, we would complete the
integration in 15 months. I compliment
the team for having done an outstanding
job. It has also significantly reinforced
my confidence in our team’s execution
capability.
Going forward, I see synergy and merger
benefits flowing through this year and
beyond. We now have capacity in place
for a Bigger, Bolder, Better tomorrow.
Our credit costs shot up to over 0.8%
of advances because of the stress we
inherited from the merger. I see this
normalising in FY 2016 - 17. Further, I
expect to see pick-up in our loan growth
as I see the pie increasing, and also our
share in the pie.
As technology and digital take centre-
stage, we are focused on the bank’s
transformation. Our bank’s mobile
application is rated amongst the best in
Indian banking. We look at digital as a
way to not only improve our processes
and productivity but also as the cutting
edge tool for better customer experience
and growth in customer acquisition.
Another area of focus for us going
forward is the area of analytics. We are
gearing up the organisation for increased
intelligence, speed of response and
increased productivity on asset, liability,
and services areas.
To ensure increased transparency, we
were one of the first banks to disclose
our SMA-2 (Special Mention Accounts)
numbers. At ` 153 crore or 0.13% of
advances, it is probably the lowest in the
Indian banking sector.
We have recently launched our
International Banking Unit in GIFT City,
Gandhinagar, Gujarat, to meet growing
demands for foreign currency facilities to
corporates.
I am happy to inform that we have
invested 19.9% in Airtel M-Commerce,
which has been granted a payment bank
license by the RBI. We have also launched
our general insurance venture, as a
100% subsidiary.
Last year I expressed my confidence in
Life Insurance and Asset Management
businesses. I am happy to report that our
Life Insurance business which was ranked
at #9 in FY 2014 - 15 for individual new
business premium has moved up to #5
in FY 2015 - 16. We have grown this
business at a rate exceeding 50% in an
industry where the growth rate is still in
early teens.
Our Assets Under Management (AUM)
across the group now exceed ` 1,00,000
crore. Our mutual fund business has
increased its market share in the last year
with a 42% growth in average AUM.
Further, the alternate assets business is
seeing renewed interest. In the last quarter
itself, we have raised a commitment of
approximately USD 1 billion.
Where next? We aspire to achieve a
leadership position in Indian financial
services. Our core model of ‘Concentrated
India, Diversified Financial Services’
continues. We look at this as running a
marathon with some ‘defying gravity’
moments along the way.
As for myself, I enjoy the journey and
not the destination, especially when the
guiding principle is - ‘what you create
must outlive yourself’.
