Our new projects in the hydrocarbons
and digital services businesses have made
significant progress. We have invested over
`1,12,000 crore (US$17 billion) in
FY 2015-16, the highest-ever by any
corporate in Indian history. This large
investment spread across all our businesses
will create sustained and significant value
for our stakeholders. As we near the end of
our largest capital expenditure cycle, we are
focused on ensuring a smooth start-up and
stabilisation of the new growth platforms
across our hydrocarbon and consumer
businesses.
Global economic activity remained muted
during the year as oil prices remained soft.
The oversupply situation continued as oil
producing countries vied for market share.
Emerging markets dependent on Chinese
growth were impacted as China moves from
an infrastructure and export economy to
a consumption based economy. Despite
these macro headwinds, India was resilient
and overtook China’s growth rate to become the world’s fastest growing major
economy. However, the Indian economy
too faced challenges from slow agricultural
growth with two consecutive poor
monsoons and sharp contraction in exports
due to weak global demand and lower
commodity prices.
Against this backdrop, Reliance recorded
its highest-ever consolidated net profit
of `27,630 crore (US$4.2 billion) during
the year, a growth of 17.2% y-o-y. Strong
operating performance from the refining
and petrochemicals business led to higher
operating profits (PBDIT), which increased
by 14.2% on a y-o-y basis to `52,503 crore
(US$7.9 billion). The benefits of low crude
oil and energy prices for our downstream
businesses clearly outweigh the impact of
these factors on our upstream segment,
reflecting in the record earnings for the
year. This underscores the robustness of
our integrated model and quality of assets
which deliver strong operating cash flows in
a challenging environment.
The global oil demand is expected to grow
by 1.4 million b/d in CY 2016 and probably
by 1.3 million b/d in CY 2017. This is on the
back of 1.8 million b/d of demand growth
recorded during CY 2015. This cumulative
growth of over 4 million b/d of global
oil demand over three successive years
bodes well for the refining industry. The
demand growth for all our key products in
the refining and petrochemicals business
remained robust in India. Oil demand in
India grew by 10.9%, the highest growth
rate seen in the past 15 years. This was led
by strong growth of 14.1% in gasoline, 7.5%
in diesel, 8.8% in jet kerosene and 20.7% in
naphtha.
The petrochemical product demand too
remained above long-term averages. Indian
polymer market experienced growth rate
of 15%, surpassing China to become the
fastest growing polymer market. Polyester
demand growth sustained at 5% for the year.
Reliance’s world-class refining infrastructure
at Jamnagar enabled us to deliver
a very strong performance despite the
turbulence in the energy sector. EBIT from
refining business increased by 49.1% y-o-y
to `23,598 crore. EBIT margins expanded
from 4.7% in FY 2014-15 to 10% in
FY 2015-16. Our gross refining margins
stood at US$10.8/bbl in FY 2015-16,
the highest in the last seven years and
significantly outperformed the Singapore
benchmark.
Our refineries benefited from robust growth
in global oil product demand and over
supplied oil markets. Transportation fuels
benefited the most, with gasoline the key
growth driver. Gasoline cracks were seen
at historic high levels during the year. The
refining business was effectively supported
by a robust risk management framework
which is an integral part of the operations.
Leveraging the flexibility provided by
our refining assets at Jamnagar, we were
able to optimise our crude and product
slate to capture higher margins from light
distillates. Our refineries processed new
grades of crude to make use of advantaged
feedstock available at significant discounts.
This allowed us to capture the benefits of
a widening differential between light and
heavy crude oil.
Staying true to our commitment to growth,
we aim to achieve significant long-term
energy cost reduction with the completion
of the petcoke gasification project, where
low value petroleum coke will be used
to produce high value syngas to increase
Jamnagar’s energy self-sufficiency.
Furthermore, we continue to re-commission
our petroleum retail network which has now
expanded to over 1,000 outlets.
Petrochemicals
Reliance’s petrochemical division continued
to deliver sustained growth. Demand for
downstream products increased as lower
oil prices softened end product prices.
Reliance’s petrochemicals business has a
wide product portfolio, superior feedstock
linkages and serves high-growth end-
markets including automobiles, packaging,
consumer durables, agriculture and
infrastructure sector in India. Favourable
demand-supply dynamics were reflected
in margin expansion across key product
categories. Overall EBIT margin for the
segment expanded by 380 bps to 12.4% for
the year.
We made rapid progress in the completion
of the new ROGC and aromatics project.
These projects upon completion will add
significant volumes to our polymer business
and enhance integration for the polyester
chain. The new cracker will be among the
lowest cost producers of ethylene in the
world. We have also made substantial
progress in the US ethane import project,
which will lower costs and ensure long-
term feedstock security, flexibility and
competitiveness.
In the polyester chain, we added substantial
volumes in efforts to further integrate our
business. We now produce 650 KTA of PET
at Dahej, making it the largest bottle-grade
PET resin capacity at a single location
globally. To cater to the large PET capacity,
we also successfully commissioned PTA
facilities of a total capacity of 2.3 MMTPA in
Dahej during the year. Our fully integrated
polyester business model allows us to also
benefit from inherent logistics and cost
advantages.
Reliance is confident of placing all our
incremental output from the new projects
in the domestic markets to meet India’s
growing demand.
Low energy prices have created a
challenging environment for upstream
business of Reliance. Conserving cash while
retaining optionality and preparedness
for ramp-up was accorded a high priority
during the year. Measures were taken in
the shale gas business to optimise capital
expenditure and opex through effective
production management. The capital
expenditure for US Shale business was cut
by 25% on y-o-y basis. Reliance strategically
unlocked significant shareholder value by
monetising its EFS midstream investment
for US$1.07 billion.
On the domestic front, KG D6 production
fell due to natural decline in the producing
wells. During the year, Government of
India issued new gas pricing policy which
includes marketing and pricing freedom
for production from discoveries in deep
water, ultra-deep water and high pressure-
high temperature areas. Both Reliance
and its partner BP, are evaluating the new
policy and investment plans to develop
discovered resources.
Consumer Businesses – Reliance
Retail and Digital Services
In our retail business, we have reached
significant milestones over the past couple
of years and continue the high growth
trajectory. Reliance Retail now caters to
over 3.5 million customers every week. With
over `20,000 crore of revenue, it is India’s
largest retailer and has sustained a growth rate of 29% CAGR in the last five years.
In FY 2015-16, we added 624 new stores
taking our total stores to 3,245 stores,
spread over 12.8 million square feet and it is
currently operating 3,383 stores. “Reliance
Fresh” has consistently appeared in the list
of most trusted national brands.
The integration of advanced infrastructure
built by Jio and physical retail presence
will help us create a differentiated
omni-commerce model for our retail
business. We are augmenting reach to
customers through online-offline product
assortment across trade channels. These
efforts in building a seamless interface will
deliver superior value proposition for our
customers.
As India shifts to a digitally empowered
society, we anticipate a significant demand
for devices to connect users to a digital
ecosystem. Keeping this in mind, we have
started building the largest distribution
reach for devices in India. We have
introduced “LYF” models of smartphones
and televisions to enable user’s access to
the 4G LTE experience.
The next wave of growth in India will
be enabled through internet and data
capabilities. Our digital initiative continues
to gather speed to provide anytime,
anywhere access to innovative and
empowering digital content, applications
and services, thereby propelling India into
global leadership in the digital economy. We envisage ushering in the era of
“visuality”, where video will replace voice as
the new communication medium.
Our customer offerings are built on four
key strategic dimensions, viz. widest
coverage, substantially superior network
quality, transformational data capacity
and affordable services. We have made
considerable progress on all of these fronts
during the year.
During the year, Reliance Jio moved
towards completion of its network
infrastructure as well as business services
and platforms. We on-boarded over 1.5
million test users, who have been using
the services extensively. This has enabled
testing of the network, user applications
and services and business platforms. The
feedback from test users is extremely
encouraging. The test programme will be
progressively upgraded into commercial
operations in the coming months.
In order to further deepen the network
coverage, Reliance Jio acquired spectrum
in the 800 MHz band across 13 circles, to
become the only operator with pan India
LTE spectrum in both the 800 MHz and
2300 MHz bands. Reliance Jio also has
spectrum in the 1800 MHz band across
18 circles. In addition, Reliance Jio has
entered into an agreement for sharing of
spectrum in the 800 MHz band across 21
circles (4 circles are still awaiting approval).
Reliance Jio is the only telecom service provider using sub-GHz spectrum band
for LTE services in the country today. The
combined spectrum footprint across
frequency bands provides significant
network capacity and deep in-building
coverage for Reliance Jio.
At Reliance, we truly believe that
empowering people with high quality
internet access will help India progress and
move towards a more knowledge based
and connected society.
Robust Balance Sheet
RIL enjoys prime credit ratings as a result of
its fiscal prudence and strong cash flows.
During the year, RIL and its subsidiaries
tied-up long-term foreign currency facilities
of about US$6.3 billion. With its unparalleled
access to global debt markets, Reliance
successfully re-priced and re-financed debt
instruments thereby reducing interest cost.
This year we concluded the largest financing
transaction globally in the telecom sector
supported by K-sure. This was also the
longest tenure telecom financing supported
by K-sure.
During the year, we became the first
private sector energy company globally
to issue notes backed by the EXIM Bank
of the USA. Also, we are the first energy
company globally to issue Formosa Bond.
Our innovative financings earned us various
accolades during the year, including ‘Issuer
of the Year’ award for 2015 from IFR Asia and
‘Best Corporate Issuer - 2015’ from The Asset.
Reliance has always accorded the highest
importance to health and safety in the
existing plants and the projects. A fully
equipped and qualified HSE (Health Safety
and Environment) organisation has been
provided for each location to govern,
document and provide HSE assurance. The
process of first and second party audits
continued at all sites with feedback being
provided to the Board of Directors.
To have a better assessment of the
business and functional risks and to
monitor risk mitigation effectiveness
based on risk evaluation, the concept
of BRAC (Business Risk and Assurance
Committee) was introduced with senior
management personnel on the committee.
On the governance front we have put
in place a comprehensive Reliance
Management System, a holistic set of
management systems, organisational
structures, processes and requirements to
enable more evolved governance and risk
assurance framework for Reliance through
its three key core elements: Operating
Management System (OMS), Financial
Management System (FMS) and People
Management System (PMS).
An integral part of Reliance’s philosophy is
its commitment to empower and enhance
the quality of lives of millions of people.
During the year, Reliance Foundation continued to provide accelerated high
impact solutions to India’s multifarious
development challenges. Various efforts of
the Foundation have positively impacted
several hundreds of thousands marginal
households in areas of health, livelihoods,
education and relief during natural
calamities. Our sports initiatives, aimed
at development of youth and reviving the
sporting landscape in the country, reached
out to over 2 million school-going children.
During the year, Reliance contributed `652
crore towards CSR activities, accounting for
2.38% of our profit after tax. At the close, I would like to thank the
entire team at Reliance for an outstanding
year which is reflective of their efforts,
dedication and commitment to success.
I would like to place on record my sincere
appreciation to the Board of Directors for
their guidance. I would like to express my
gratitude to all our stakeholders for their
continuing faith in Reliance.
