I am happy to report that we have delivered
superior financial performance, improved
capital efficiency and continued strong project
execution. Our focus on delivery and growth
continued to yield results in what was a difficult
year for many of our peers globally. Our
financial and operational performance in
FY 2016-17 was outstanding, reflecting in
record net profit. I would like to express my
gratitude to everyone at Reliance for the hard
work they have put in to achieve this.
Global economic growth in 2016 was stable aided
by a recovery in commodity prices and increased
global trade. Global oil prices were supported by
co-operation between OPEC and non-OPEC
producers for cutting production. While underlying
demand trends are encouraging, tightening rates in
US and possible end of accommodative monetary
policy in other developed countries could impact
emerging economies.
GDP growth in India was robust at 7.1%, supported
by strong consumption growth and government
spending. The introduction of GST is a significant
reform measure and will overtime help India in
simplifying tax structure and compliance, aligning it
with practices in developed countries.
Reliance delivered robust operational and financial
performance during the year, resulting in net
profit of `29,901 crore (US$ 4.6 billion), growth of
18.8% y-o-y. The most significant factors affecting
year-to-year comparisons of earnings and cash
flow generated by our operating activities are
improvement in the petrochemicals and refining
margins. Refining and petrochemicals businesses
achieved record levels of profitability, underpinned
by our ability to access feedstock competitively
from global markets, maintain high operating
rates and place products in growth markets. The
refining business delivered double-digit GRMs for
the second year in a row, benefiting from the global
demand for transportation fuels and stable product
cracks.
Lower oil price environment continues to drive
strong demand growth across key markets. Global
oil demand for 2016 grew by 1.6 mb/d, led by China
and India. India has now become a major force in
driving global oil demand growth and is now the
world’s third largest oil consumer. India’s oil demand
grew 5.2% during the year led by strong growth in
gasoline and jet fuel. Diesel demand growth in India
however remained muted as industrial cycle lagged
consumption. The pace of petrochemical product
demand growth was lower compared to previous
years. Polymer demand in India was up 7% y-o-y
while polyester demand grew by 3% y-o-y.
Refining and Marketing segment EBIT increased by
6.5% y-o-y to a record level of ` 25,056 crore
(US$ 3.9 billion), supported by higher GRM and
crude throughput. GRM for the year stood at eight
year high level of US$ 11.0/bbl as against US$ 10.8/
bbl in the previous year. RIL’s GRM outperformed
Singapore complex margins by US$ 5.2/bbl, the
highest premium achieved in the last eight years.
Though regional refining margins trended
downwards, our high-conversion refining system
was able to take advantage of firm margins on
middle distillates and wider discounts on difficult-
to-process crudes in a well-supplied market. During
the year, our refineries processed 65 different grades
of crude including five new grades. This illustrates
the flexibility and complexity of our refining assets
at Jamnagar which can process heavy and sour
crudes to produce high value transportation fuels.
During the year, light products mainly gasoline
and naphtha witnessed a sharp decline in cracks.
This was partially offset by firm middle distillate
cracks and efficient yield shift management in our
refineries to capture higher margins.
Our petroleum retail operations continued to gather
momentum with 1,221 fuel outlets operational at
the end of the year. These outlets are registering
industry leading pump throughputs which were
as high as twice the industry average in March
2017. Our success in petroleum retail is testimony
to our superior value proposition to consumers
and our ability to leverage technology for ensuring
consistent delivery. These attributes have also
helped us ramp-up our bulk marketing business
leading to market share gains.
Our petcoke gasification initiative is aimed at
reducing the energy cost for the Jamnagar complex
on a sustainable basis. We have achieved the
installation and mechanical completion for the
gasification project linked to our DTA refinery and
the pre-commissioning activities are ongoing.
On completion, this will make Jamnagar complex
highly energy efficient with the lowest energy cost
for any integrated Refinery and Petrochemicals
facility globally.
Petrochemicals segment EBIT increased sharply
by 27.5% to a record level of `12,990 crore ($ 2.0
billion), supported by favorable product margins
and growth in volumes. Favorable naphtha cracking
economics, firm domestic demand and higher
volumes in the polyester chain were the key factors
driving profitability. EBIT margin of 14% is at a five
year high level, reflecting strong polymer margins
and recovery in polyester chain economics.
Our company continues to benefit from integrated
business model, wide product portfolio and scale
economics which provides us a high degree of
earnings stability. India remains a key growth
market for petrochemical products in the global
context and our new capacity additions are poised
to capture growing domestic demand.
We successfully commissioned our new Paraxylene
(PX) capacity at Jamnagar. This plant is built with
state-of-the-art crystallisation technology from
BP which is highly energy efficient. With the
commissioning of this plant, our PX capacity has
doubled and Reliance has emerged as the world’s
second largest producer of PX with about 11% of
global production.
In order to provide feedstock security and flexibility
to our cracker portfolio on the west coast of India,
we have created a virtual floating ethane pipeline
between North America and Dahej in Gujarat. The
ethane receipt and handling facilities at Dahej has
been commissioned in a record time of less than
three years and ethane cracking has commenced
at our crackers. Ethane sourcing from North
America will improve the cost competitiveness of
our existing crackers and enable us to optimise the
portfolio in a volatile market environment.
At Jamnagar, we are in the process of starting up the
largest refinery off-gas cracker (ROGC) in the world
along with related downstream capacities. This is
a pioneering initiative and a unique opportunity
available at Jamnagar due to the scale of our
refinery operations. The cracker is tightly integrated
with our refineries and will use refinery off-gases as
feedstock. This cracker will have one of the lowest
cost positions globally. The incremental volumes
will target a deficit Indian market which also
continues to be among the fastest growth market
for petrochemical products.
Our upstream business in India continued to
be impacted by weak gas prices and declining
volumes. Production volumes across our domestic
as well as US Shale operations were lower by
23% and 14% respectively. Weak upstream price
environment and lower volumes impacted the
segment EBIT for the year.
I am happy to share that Reliance is on its way to
become the largest unconventional natural gas
producer in India with the commencement of
commercial production from our CBM fields at
Sohagpur. Gas from CBM fields will be delivered
to customers on Indian Gas Grid through our new
302 kilometer long Shahdol-Phulpur pipeline.
Government has notified marketing and pricing
freedom as a reform measure to develop alternate
sources of natural gas including CBM.
In our consumer business, it is gratifying to see
an unprecedented growth trajectory continuing.
Reliance Retail revenues increased by 60% on y-o-y
basis to ` 33,765 crore. With this, Reliance Retail has
become the first organised retail Company in India
to cross the milestone of US$ 5.0 billion revenue.
Reliance Retail also sustained its profitability with
EBITDA crossing ` 1,000 crore mark. Reliance Retail
has created the widest reach in the organised retail
segment in India with 3,616 stores operational in
702 cities. It has established leadership position in
all key categories including food & grocery, fashion
& lifestyle and digital products. It has also created
the largest cash & carry chain in the country.
Reliance Retail has adopted multi-channel strategy
and has integrated “offline-online” models to truly
differentiate the customer experience. Reliance
Retail also became the first organised retail chain in
India to support UPI-based payments.
Reliance Jio
I am delighted to report on the achievements of our
newest business Jio. Jio has been a path breaker on
multiple parameters, not only in India, but even on
global stage. Jio added 100 million subscribers in
170 days, the fastest achieved by any technology
company in the world. Jio has built a world-class
all-IP data strong future proof network with the
latest 4G LTE technology. Jio has revolutionised the
Indian telecom landscape by making voice calls for
Jio customers absolutely free, across India, to any network. Jio makes India the highest quality, most
affordable data market in the world.
Today, data consumption on Jio network is higher
than the total mobile data consumption in the
US and twice that in China. It is the first Exabyte
network in the world. Our investments and
technology innovations have created a data strong
network that delivers unmatched quantity and
quality of data. Jio has led the digital transformation
of India by providing data at prices that are
affordable to all Indians. Our Jio team is customer
obsessed and has the passion to deliver a superior
experience to all our customers.
Jio customers have access to an eco-system of
digital services and apps created to enrich their
user experience. The suite of services include live
TV, on demand movies, music, magazines and news
among others.
The compelling value proposition and high quality
of Jio services has led the largest and the fastest
migration from free to paid services in the digital
services domain. The JIO PRIME membership
program has been a resounding success with 72
million plus customer subscription by 31st March
2017.
Jio is present in all 29 states of India with direct
physical presence in more than 18,000 urban and
rural towns and over 2,00,000 villages. We are
committed to provide Jio services in nearly all the
cities, towns and villages of India, covering over 95%
of our country’s population.
Strong Cash Flows and Balance Sheet
Our Company generated PBDIT of ` 55,529 crore
(US$ 8.6 billion) for the year. During the year, we
invested ` 1,14,742 crore (US$ 17.7 billion), the
highest ever not only for our Company, but in the
corporate history of India. This capex has been
funded while maintaining investment grade ratings.
Our strong balance sheet and conservative financial
profile are reflected through the strong credit
ratings. We have maintained two notches above
India’s sovereign rating for our international debt at
BBB+ by S&P. This capex across energy and materials
businesses and digital services will significantly
enhance Reliance’s cash flows and reduce volatility
in earnings in the coming years.
During the year, our Company has successfully
refinanced long-term financing of US$ 1.75 billion syndicated loan and US$ 550 million club
loan aggregating to US$ 2.3 billion resulting in
substantial interest savings over the remaining
life of these loans. This was the largest amount
syndicated by RIL since 2007.
We have tied up for ~US$ 572 million financing
to purchase six state-of-the-art Very Large Ethane
Carriers (VLECs). This financing deal carries a tenure
of 12 years and comprises of US$286 million tranche
insured by Korea Trade Insurance Corporation
(K-Sure). This deal got a “Better than Sovereign
Rating” and is one of the most well-structured and
innovative financing deal done by the Company.
This deal has been globally recognised and has won
five global awards.
Commitment to Health and Safety
We are committed towards providing a healthy
and safe work environment to our employees,
contractors and all the visitors to our sites. We have
successfully implemented Operating Management
Systems for reduction in Health, Safety, Security and
Environment (HSSE) risks.
We had started the ‘Change Agents for Safety Health
and Environment’ (CASHe) programme more than a
decade ago. Over the years, the CASHe programme
has evolved into a movement encompassing the
entire enterprise with thousands of improvement
projects. The programme has been instrumental in
creating a culture of implementing health, safety
and environment projects on a priority basis.
The program has helped in reducing health and
safety risks across the Company and over 1,500
projects have been identified and control measures
implemented till date.
True to our vision to be a “Cloud First, Mobile
First” organisation, our employees can access
transactional, analytical, and informational
capability on their mobile devices thus improving
productivity, response times, safety and operational
reliability.
Safety is an integral part of our culture, and we will
be launching several Smart Workforce initiatives
which explore the use of sensor-equipped
wearables like goggles, helmets and suits to ensure
worker safety and improve labour efficiency and
utilisation.
Sustainability at Reliance embraces environmental
and social responsibility by creating value for its
stakeholders. We are working to maximise the use
of clean energy in our operations. During the year,
Reliance contributed ` 674 crore towards various
community development initiatives focused in the
areas of rural transformation, health, education,
sports for development, disaster response, urban
renewal and arts, culture and heritage. Through
these initiatives, Reliance has positively impacted
12 million lives across the nation including the
vulnerable and marginalised communities. We work
incessantly to include all stakeholders in our growth
journey and the organisational value depends
greatly on the value it creates for the society at large.
I would like to thank all my colleagues across
the country and the globe for their unflinching
dedication, commitment and contribution to
strengthening Reliance. During the year, the
Reliance team shaped the contours of future growth
platforms in the Consumer and the Energy and
Materials businesses. I am proud to be part of this
gifted team that has strived tirelessly over the last
few years to create unparalleled hydrocarbon assets,
while ushering in the digital age to the remotest
parts of our country.
We are looking forward to continue on our mission
of generating sustainable value for our stakeholders
and India. I would like to place on record my sincere
appreciation to the Board of Directors for their
guidance. I would like to express my gratitude to
all our stakeholders for their continuing faith in
Reliance.
