I am happy to tell you that we have again delivered
outstanding performances on both financial and operational
parameters across all our business segments. FY 2017-18
turned out to be a watershed year in the history of Reliance.
Our new-age consumer businesses achieved leadership
positions nationally – their growth rates outpacing the best
in the world. Jio, now the world’s largest and fastest growing
mobile data network, stunned the world and made us proud
by turning profitable in the very first year of operations.
Reliance Retail is the only Indian retailer to rank among
the world's Top 200 global retail chains. Our energy and materials businesses successfully completed one of the
world’s largest, most complex, and most innovative projects,
achieving a level of integration that is unprecedented
globally.
Yes, we have made a spectacular start to our Golden Decade.
In a world full of volatility, uncertainty, complexity and
ambiguity, these achievements are indeed commendable.
I thank and congratulate everyone at Reliance for this feat.
The global economy is now growing at its fastest pace since
2010, with the upturn becoming increasingly synchronised
across countries. The world economy is expected to
strengthen further in 2018 and 2019, with economic
growth projected to rise to about 4%, from 3.7% in 2017.
Stronger investment, the rebound in global trade and higher
employment are helping make the recovery increasingly
broad-based. This long-awaited lift, supported by policy
stimulus, is being accompanied by solid employment
gains, a moderate upturn in investment and a pick-up in
trade growth. The continued rise in global trade was led by
pickup in import demand in developed markets. Growing
protectionism impacting trading relations and geo-political
tensions in parts of Asia are a key area of concern.
India’s economy maintained its strong growth in FY 2017-
18 – the Gross Domestic Product growth was 6.7%, with
a strong 7.7% increase in the last quarter of the year. With
the 'One Nation, One Tax' GST regime being implemented,
and gradually stabilising by the second half of the year, the
economy witnessed upsurge in investments, consumption,
as well as government spending. Industrial activity rebounded, and services indicators too showed positive
trends. Thanks to a series of policy initiatives, India moved
into the world’s Top 100 countries in terms of ease of doing
business. The country also retained its position as a favoured
destination for foreign capital, with gross foreign direct
investment inflows of $64.6 bn in 2017.
Reliance improved on its last year’s record performance
to post a 20.6% jump in net profit to Rs.36.075 crore.
It also became the first Indian company to record an
EBITDA of over $10 billion, with our key businesses - Refining
& Marketing, Petrochemicals, Retail and Digital Services –
achieving record earnings performance.
The year saw our consumer businesses attain a threshold,
wherefrom they will start contributing meaningfully to
consolidated profits. From a mere 2% in FY 2016-17, Jio and 
Retail accounted for 13.1% of RIL's consolidated Segment 
EBITDA in FY 2017-18. This was achieved notwithstanding a
sharp 33.6% spurt in consolidated EBITDA to Rs.74,184 crore.
Our aim to have the consumer businesses contribute on
par with the energy and materials business over the next
decade, when we celebrate our Golden Jubilee.
The refining and petrochemical businesses posted record 
level of profitability owing to expanded capacities, high 
operating rates, and improved cost competitiveness. The
refining business improved upon the preceding year's
strong Gross Refining Margins GRMs. The petrochemicals 
segment posted a significant jump in profits due to higher
volumes from expanded capacities and better margins.
Globally, oil demand grew at the rate of 1.6 mb/d in CY 2017,
with Asia alone accounting for close to two-thirds of the total
growth. Oil demand in India grew 5.3% in FY 2017-18, similar
to the 5.4% growth of FY 2016-17. The transportation sector
drove the overall demand in India, with gasoline demand
rising 10%, aviation fuel growing 9%, and diesel 6.6%, LPG
demand grew 8% in FY 2017-18, reflecting an increase in
household penetration.
With economic activity picking up across the world, the
global oil demand outlook for 2018 continues to remain strong. IEA has forecast that in 2018, the world will consume
an additional 1.4 mb/d of crude oil. The growing global
demand and reducing inventories augur well for the refining 
industry over the next 12-18 months.
The refining and marketing segment reported a 3.2%
increase in EBIT, climbing to its highest ever level of Rs.25,869
crore. The GRMs for the year rose to a nine-year 
high of $11.6/bbl, climbing from last year's $11.6/bbl
RIL's GRM outperformed the Singapore complex margins
by $4.4/bbl. In FY 2017-18, the Singapore complex margin
averaged $7.2/bbl, compared to $5.8/bbl in FY 2016-17
owing to strong product cracks aided by firm oil demand
growth and lagging refining capacity additions.
We have maintained the highest safety standards and
relentlessly strived to improve energy efficiency and
minimise operating and maintenance costs. We have ensured
adoption of latest developments in technology to improve
asset reliability and avoid unplanned outages, thereby
enabling high on-stream factor.
Reliance has constructed the world’s largest petcoke
gasification unit at Jamnagar - one of the most complex
projects that has integrated as many as 83 process units with
refineries and other downstream units. These processes units
operate in extreme conditions, with temperatures ranging
from -190 degrees to +1480 degrees, and pressure fluctuating from
vacuum to 120 standard atmosphere. This project will bring
the full benefit of bottom-of-the-barrel conversion to our
refining business and further boost profitability.
The gasification unit linked to the refinery in DTA is
currently undergoing trial operations to ensure steady
and reliable syngas supply to the Jamnagar complex. The
SEZ gasification is under commissioning. RIL continued to
re-commission its network of retail fuel stations. It now has
1,313 operational outlets. Improving quality of the customer
base, a swift transition to dynamic pricing, and continuing
focus on quality have allowed Petro Retail to bolster its
performance.
Making life better for everyone.
Petrochemicals
FY 2017-18 saw stabilisation of the ethane import project and
commissioning of the large projects at Jamnagar - refinery
off-gas cracker, PX expansion, amd other downstream
capacities. These projects took refinery-petrochemicals
integration to an unprecedented level globally. The
commissioning of the Jamnagar projects, one of the world’s
most complex set of projects, in significantly lesser time
and lower cost than comparable projects worldwide, further
endorsed RIL's world-class project execution capability.
The petrochemical segment benefitted from expanded
capacities as various projects commenced operations
through the year. The segment’s EBIT increased sharply
by 63% to its highest ever Rs. 21,179 crore.
Production increased 23.7% to 30.8 MMT. The EBIT margins
increased sharply to a record level of 16.9% from 14.0%
of last year, owing to favourable product deltas across the
integrated polyester chain, PP and PVC.
The refinery off-gas cracker and its downstream PE and 
MEG units were successfully stabilised in the last quarter
of FY 2017-18. With the improved availability of products,
enhanced reliability in operations, and feedback flexibility,
RIL further strengthened its capability to serve the Indian
market – one of the fastest growing polymer markets in the
world.
In the polyester value chain, demand outpaced capacity
additions in FY 2017-18 and enabled integrated players like
Reliance post healthy operating rates and improved margins
despite the rising costs. China’s ban on imports of recycled
polyester supported the demand growth of virgin polyester.
Our petrochemicals business has progressed further on
the expression of ‘Chemistry for Smiles’. We have created
R|ElanTM, a portfolio of specialty fabrics, a perfect blend of
"art" and "smart" and launched eco-friendly products based
on recycled PET bottles.
Making life better for everyone.
Our Oil and Gas business continued to face headwinds owing
to declining volumes and soft prices that improved towards
end of the year. Volumes from conventional fields and US
Shale were lower on account of natural decline and slowdown
in development activity. Our domestic production was down
16.9% at 78.9 Bcfe, whereas the US Shale volume fell 19.7%
to 139.7 Bcfe.
On the positive side, Reliance is poised to become one of
the largest non-conventional gas producers in India with the
ramp up of CBM production that crossed 1 MMSCMD. To
sustain production, the second phase of development has
also commenced.
Reliance and its partners announced plans to invest Rs. 40,000
crore to develop the already discovered deep-
water gas fields in the KG-D6 Block. Development work for 
R-Cluster fields has commenced. Satellite fields and Other
Satellite fields will be developed in an integrated manner as a 
cluster project. With these fields, we will venture into ultra-
deepwater and High Pressure, High Temperature areas – a
first in India
In our US Shale Gas business, the natural gas prices were firm
during the year, with the offtake from LNG and Mexican exports.
However, the business conditions remained challenging and
we continued with strategy of 'fit for purpose' capital
expenditure.
Jio’s next generation all-IP data network with the latest
4G-LTE technology created history, transforming not
just the Indian telecom industry but the whole country.
Within months of Jio’s launch, India shot up to World No.1
in mobile data consumption. Jio has become the world’s
largest and fastest growing mobile data network, boasting
an unprecedented level of consumer engagement. More
subscribers were added to Jio’s network in the last year than
all other operators combined. Equally important, Jio turned
profitable in the very first year of operations. Jio earned a net
profit of Rs. 723 crore on turnover of Rs. 23, 714 crore in its first
year of commercial operations.
Jio continued with its strong subscriber growth, with
186.6 million customers at the end of March 2018, and the
lowest churn in the industry at 0.25% per month. Each Jio
subscriber on an average consumes 9.7 GB data, 716 minutes
of voice calls, and 13.8 hours of video per month.
Jio's end-to-end all-IP network is the most differentiated
network with functionalities such as SDN and NFV, and has
been consistently rated as the fastest network in India by
TRAI’s MySpeed application over the last 15 months. Jio’s
average download speed of 17.9 Mbps is more than twice the
network speed available on any other network. Jio has also
been consistently rated to bave the widest LTE coverage
in the country. During FY 2017-18, it continued expanding
the 4G network coverage, and further deepening in existing
areas to achieve a 99% population coverage.
Jio is constantly striving to enrich the digital experience of
its customers through innovative applications developed in-
house, or in collaboration with the unique ecosystem of small
and large partners.
Making life better for everyone.
Jio offers its subscribers unique content such as Pyongyang 
2018 Olympic Winter Games, Jio Cricket Play Along, etc.
The MyJio app is the most popular self-care app with over
150 million downloads and substantial additional features.
Jio has forged partnerships with the likes of Balaju Telefilms,
Eros International and Saavn to bring unique content with an
intuitive user interface to every Indian.
The Company continues to make progress on delivering
enterprise solutions, FTTH and IOT, with beta trials initiated
in a few locations. These services are being offered using the 
existing integrated network and platforms.
During the year, Jio was awarded the 1st rank in India
and 17th globally in the Fast Company’s World’s 50 Most
Innovative Companies list for 2018. Jio also won the "Best 
Mobile Operator Service for Consumers" award at the
recent Mobile World Congress 2018. It was awarded "The 
Disruptors" title in the CNBC TV18's India Business Leader
Awards 2018. JioTV won the "Best Mobile Video Content" 
award at the Global Mobile Awards 2018.
Reliance Retail has become the first retailer in India to cross
the $10 billion revenue milestone and enter the world's Top
200 Retail chains. We have the best reach, the best formats,
and the best customer acceptance in India. Reliance Retail is
India's largest retailer by revenue and profitability, delivering
superior value to its customers, suppliers and other
stakeholders.
Over the past five years, the business has grown at a massive
45% annually – doubling every two years. Reliance Retail
ranks among the world’s Top 5 fastest-growing retailers.
Last year alone, Reliance Retail operationalised 3,736 Jio
Points across 3,700 cities to enhance its distribution reach
for consumer durables and connectivity solutions – an
unprecedented feat in India.
Reliance Retail, which operates in four key consumption
baskets, viz. Grocery, Consumer Electronics & Connectivity,
Fashion & Lifestyle, and Fuel Retail, is expanding in every 
market, every format and every vertical. Today, we are
present in more than 4,400 cities, covering 17.7 million sq. ft
of retail space.
Strong Cash Flows and Balance Sheet
Relianc became India's first company to cross $10 billion
in EBITDA in FY 2017-18. As the Company executed India’s
largest-ever capital expenditure programme over the past
five years, the cash profit for the year was up over 31% to 
Rs. 56,034 crore, setting stafe for the next growth phase of
company’s earnings cycle.
The Company’s debt-equity ratio remained at a conservative
level.We have retained our domestic credit ratings of 'CRISIL
AAA' from CRISIL and 'IND AAA' from India Rating
international debt, we have an investment grade ‘Baa2’
rating from Moody’s, and ‘BBB+’ from S&P. We maintained
the ratings even as Reliance went through a large investment
cycle over the past five years.
Reliance is globally acknowledged for its unique and
innovative approach in fund-raising. It maintains strong
relationships with a large number of international banks,
financial institutions and export credit agencies. This, along
with our efficient cash flow management and fiscal discipline
have helped us raise funds at competitive rates and optimise
borrowing costs.
RIL differentiated itself as an employer of choice. An
integrated wellness programme for employees has been
implemented in the Company through medical services and
related initiatives. We are committed to providing a healthy
and safe work environment to employees, contractors, and
all visitors.
We started the Change Agents for Safety Health and
Environment (CASHe) programme more than a decade
ago. Ever since, the CASHe programme has evolved into a
movement encompassing the entire enterprise comprising
thousands of improvement projects.
Our ambition is: "Reliance shall strive to be a leader in the
field of management of Health, Safety and Environment".
The Jamnagar expansion project has achieved better
than international benchmarks in quality, safety, cost
and schedule. Further, new records for flawless start-ups
and commissioning have been established. RIL is globally
certified as a 'Healthy Workplace' for the period 2017-19
by the Global Centre for Healthy Workplaces, Tucson, USA.
Making life better for everyone.
Sustainable Growth and Societal Responsibility
The Reliance DNA ensures businesses solve problems and
also create societal value for all Indians. In the 40 years of our
journey since listing, we have strived to conduct businesses
in a manner that is sustainable and inclusive. When we
started with textiles, we provided the best-in-quality fabrics
to every Indian. Our petrochemicals products have a role to
play in almost every aspect of modern life. When we entered
the refining business, we provided high spec fuels for Indian
and global markets. When we entered telecom, we strived
to provide mobile phones in the hand of every Indian at an
affordable rate. Through Reliance Retail, we have made the 
best-in-class global brands available to every section of our
society. And now, with Jio, with the backdrop of inclusivity,
we have made available high-speed data to every Indian at
the most affordable rated, with zero call charge forever.
Our operational framework has been to integrate the six
capitals – Natural, Human, Manufactured, Intellectual,
Financial, and Social & Relationship – throughout the
organisation and create value for our stakeholders. I would like to place on record my sincere appreciation to the
Board of Directors for their guidance. I would like to express
my gratitude to all our stakeholders for their continuing faith
in Reliance.
An integral part of Reliance’s philosophy is its commitment
to empower and enhance the quality of lives of millions of
people. Sustainability at Reliance embraces environmental
and social responsibility while creating value for its
stakeholders. On the operations side, we are working to
maximise use of clean energy and minimise the carbon
footprint in collaboration with the best available technology
licensors. Reliance Foundation is deeply involved in the
areas of rural transformation, health, education, sports for
development, disaster response, urban renewal, and arts,
culture and heritage. The initiatives of Reliance Foundation
have positively impacted 20 million lives across the nation
and we work incessantly to include all stakeholders in our
growth story.
Reliance believes that new technologies and data power will
help unleash the potential of India’s human capital.
Making life better for everyone.
RIL is piloting the use of Virtual Reality (VR) to increase 
safety and reliability through a virtual walkthrough plant
environment for interactive training, testing and process
simulation for all crucial personnel.
RIL is implementing a world-class analytics platform and a 
data lake using the best-in-breed technologies for its Big
Data initiatives. Multiple advanced-stage pilots are being
undertaken to establish extensive use of machine learning
and artificial intelligence with a view of long-term adoption
and institutionalisation.
Conclusion
Over the last four decaded, Reliance has continued to grow
and evolve, creating value by building competitive global-
scale businesses and delivering increasing shareholder value.
Over the past 3-4 years, we made significant investments in
new plants, thus creating organic growth platforms for our
energy and material businesses. Our new-age businesses 
have shown strong resilience and sustainable growth
potential for 1.3 billion Indians, as well as for Reliance, and will
surely script a glorious chapter in our Golden Decade.
I would like to thank all my colleagues for their dedication,
innovation and hard work. By creating new benchmarks in
the businesses we operate in, our team is delivering on our
mission to generate sustainable value for our stakeholders
and India. These efforts also help us to deliver inclusive
growth and make life better for everyone.
I would like to place on record my sincere appreciation to the
Board of Directors for their guidance. I would like to express
my gratitude to all our stakeholders for their continuing faith
in Reliance.
