It is my privilege to be writing to you from this desk on
completion of 50 years since our inception.
TCS was established on April 1, 1968, and over the last
five decades, your company benefited from the vision of
three outstanding leaders – F C Kohli, S Ramadorai and
N Chandrasekaran. Each of these leaders was instrumental
in taking the organization to the next level, and each left a
distinctive imprint on the company.
Our values, entrepreneurial agility, customer-centricity,
and social responsibility – all of which define who we are
and how we got here, are direct outcomes of their vision
and leadership. Following in their footsteps and building
upon the accomplishments of these giants is humbling, and
inspirational.
Coming to the present, it has been a full year after our
leadership transition. I am happy to report that it has
been a very stable and seamless experience for all our
stakeholders. I want to take this opportunity to thank
our Chairman, Chandra, for his continuous guidance and
support in helping us through this tough and crucial
year. His effortless combination of ensuring that I had all
the support he could give, and all the space I need, was
the single biggest driver for your company’s successful
transition into the new management structure. I also
want to highlight the unique culture and value system of
the senior management team at TCS. They accepted and
adopted the change in leadership wholeheartedly and
worked relentlessly to make it a success. It is a matter of
great joy and pride for me that during this transition year,
each and every member of our leadership team stood
steadfast by your company.
The last year saw a steady acceleration on a path that
we were already on, and we used the opportunity to
make some incremental changes. We refocused the
organization on the market opportunity presented by four
big themes: Intelligence, Agility, Automation and Cloud, and
reorganized the teams to align with these themes.
In FY 2018, your Company delivered a reported revenue of
`123,104 crore, growing 4.4% over the prior year, which is 6.7%
growth in constant currency terms. On a constant currency
basis, barring BFSI which grew 3.2% and Retail & CPG which
grew 1.5%, we had very strong growth in the other six industry
verticals, averaging 13.2% in aggregate. Growth was led by
Energy and Utilities which grew 26.8%, Travel and Hospitality
which grew 22.4%, Life Sciences & Healthcare which grew 11.9%
and Communications & Media which grew 11.6%.
In terms of our markets, growth was led by Continental Europe
which grew 19.1% in constant currency, UK which grew 8.6%,
Latin America which grew 7.8% and India which grew 6.9%.
Operating margin was 24.8%, which was flattish year on year,
on a currency-adjusted basis. Net profit was `25,826 crore,
a net margin of 21%. In keeping with our shareholder friendly
capital allocation policy, the Board has recommended a final
dividend of `29 for the year, bringing the total dividend
payout for the year to `50 per share. The Board has also
recommended a bonus issue in the ratio 1:1.
Mid-year, we articulated our Business 4.0 thought
leadership framework that allows enterprises to leverage
digital technologies to further their growth and
transformation agendas.
The defining attributes of successful enterprises in the Business
4.0 world are their ability to mass personalize the customer
experience – sometimes at a very granular, transactional level;
actively leverage ecosystems and embrace risk to deliver
exponential value. They are agile, intelligent, automated and
on the cloud. At the core of Business 4.0 is a shift in mind-set,
from optimizing the use of scarce resources to harnessing the
technology-enabled abundance of talent, compute power,
storage, and market reach.
During the year, we revamped our services portfolio
substantially, in tune with our Business 4.0 vision and evolving
buying behaviours in the market. This is further strengthening
our engagement with other stakeholders in our customers’
organizations – like the CMO, COO, CFO and other CXOs, in
addition to the CIOs and CTOs that we have traditionally
worked with.
Our Business 4.0 framework is resonating very well with our
customers across every industry vertical, and guiding their
transformational journeys. Their digital transformation is
proceeding at three levels: the digital core, the intelligence
layer and the experience layer. While popular attention has
been on the latter two, the transformation of the core is a much
larger, more complex, and riskier undertaking – and yet, that
is the most critical program without which many of the digital
initiatives simply can’t progress further.
FY 2018 saw many of our customers embark on the
refurbishment of their core. With our contextual knowledge,
domain expertise, depth in digital and intellectual property, we
have been their preferred partner in these strategic initiatives.
We signed several mega deals that are industry-defining in
nature. Whether it was the largest Internet of Things (IoT) deal
that we signed with Rolls Royce, or the deal with Transamerica
to replace their fragmented, legacy core with a modern, cloud-
based digital platform – the largest contract signed by TCS
till date – these are all examples of progressive organizations
embracing digital transformation at their core.
Unlike the large deals of the past which were large in scale, but
were mostly homogeneous in terms of the services sold, the
large deals we are now signing are very large in scope as well,
leveraging the full spectrum of our capabilities. That makes
them very difficult for others to replicate, and strengthens our
competitive positioning. Revenue from digital engagements
accounted for 21.2% of our revenue in FY 2018 and grew 35.3%
year on year.
Another important proof point of our participation in our
customers’ Business 4.0 spend is the steady increase in the
number and size of the digital assignments they give us,
resulting in increased share of wallet. At an aggregate level,
this is evident from the client metrics where we see a strong
progression of customers into higher revenue buckets on a
quarterly as well as annual basis. For the full year, we added 3
more clients in the $100 Mn+ revenue band bringing the total to 38,
13 more clients in the $50 Mn+ revenue band, 17 more in the
$20 Mn+ band and 40 more in the $10 Mn+ band.
Research and Innovation
Much of the Business 4.0 spending by customers is around
leveraging technology to innovate and gain competitive
advantage. Our continued investments in Research and
Innovation, and in building intellectual property, have further
strengthened our transformational credentials. Many of our
earlier research and innovation programs, now monetized into
successful platforms and solutions – such as the TCS Connected
Universe Platform, ignioTM and OptumeraTM – performed very well
this year and helped differentiate TCS.
TCS built an Open Banking API Framework to help banks
accelerate their digital transformation journey. The AI offerings
developed by our R&I teams in the areas of conversational
systems and natural language processing (NLP) were
successfully deployed internally in TCS for employee
engagement.
We continue to invest in research in cutting edge areas in
computational sciences – covering NLP, machine learning,
deep learning and data marketplaces, materials engineering,
behavioural sciences and bio-sciences – particularly in genome
interpretation for personalization of medicine and developing
biomarkers for early detection of diseases.
In addition to the research and innovation that happens within
TCS, we also leverage the innovation taking place in the start-up
ecosystem through the TCS Co-Innovation Network or COIN.
The program has now expanded its start-up connects to over
3000 start-ups in key innovation hubs in America, UK, Europe,
Asia and Australia.
The TCS Research Scholarship Program is now in its fourteenth
cycle, covering 261 PhD scholars across 33 institutes across
India. 67 individuals have obtained their PhD through this
program. TCS Researchers presented 250+ papers in premier
conferences. Your Company has filed more than 3,900 patent
applications to date, with 522 filings in FY 2018. It has been
granted 654 patents as of March 31, 2018.
People
TCS’ culture and people practices continue to differentiate
us from the rest. We firmly believe that there are no legacy
people, only legacy technologies. TCS had 394,998 employees at the end of FY 2018. While we continue to hire talent from
outside, we have doubled down on investing in internal talent
development at scale, empowering individuals to acquire
skills that will keep them relevant in an evolving technology
landscape. In FY 2018, over 247,000 employees were trained
in digital technologies, resulting in them gaining over 861,000
digital competencies.
Our workforce continues to be young, dynamic and diverse.
Women make up 35.3% of our workforce. We continue to
attract, retain, and engage top notch talent across the world. For
the third consecutive year, TCS was recognized as a Global Top
Employer by the Top Employer Institute, and as one of the Best
Employers globally in the Forbes 2000 list.
The most gratifying validation of our employee-friendly
practices however, is the best-in-class retention rate we continue
to enjoy. In FY 2018, our attrition rate in the IT Services segment
was 11%; once again, the lowest in the industry.
Beyond Business
TCS and TCSers continue to make a big difference to every
community we touch, across the world. In FY 2018, TCSers
volunteered over 570,000 hours for worthy social and
environmental causes in their respective communities. Our
various CSR programs – be it the Adult Literacy Program and
BridgeIT in India, or goIT and related programs to encourage
STEM education and careers among students in North America
and elsewhere, are scaling up nicely and making a difference,
and estimated to have benefited over 900,000 people across
the world.
The cutting edge work we do for our customers, our best-in-
class service quality, our reputation as a best employer, our
award winning Investor Relations program, our sponsorship
of various high profile marathons and other marketing efforts
including the #digitalempowers campaign, have all gone
towards elevating our brand and putting us firmly among the
top 3 brands in IT services globally. In FY 2018, TCS was the
fastest growing brand by value, crossing the $10 Bn mark and
growing 14.4% year on year.
Looking forward, we only see greater opportunity ahead, as
businesses become more technology-intensive and depend
more on technology to drive competitive differentiation. Our
agility, core attributes and belief systems which have ensured
our success over the last fifty years will continue to help us
benefit from each new wave of technology change, and create
ever more value for our stakeholders. I thank you all for your
continued support and encouragement.
