FY 2017 was a year of leadership transitions,
globally, and in your Company too. In January
this year, N Chandrasekaran (Chandra), who led
Tata Consultancy Services as the Chief Executive
Officer and Managing Director for the past seven
years, stepped down from his executive role
to become the Chairman of the Board.
In the seven years under Chandra’s leadership,
your Company’s stellar financial performance
made it a bellwether, with industry-leading
metrics in every respect. Revenue grew almost
four-fold, from ` 30,029 crore in FY 2010 to
` 117,966 crore in FY 2017, a compounded
annual growth rate of 21.6%. Our operating profit
margin – the highest in the industry – stayed
stable in the 26-28% band throughout this period.
Most importantly, the customer-centric vision to
make early, far-sighted investments in emerging
technologies allowed us to gain a leadership
position in the Digital space, positioning us well
for the future.
On behalf of the shareholders, the Board of
Directors, and all my colleagues at TCS, I would
like to thank Chandra for the executive leadership,
vision, and mentorship he provided.
In FY 2017, your Company delivered a steady
performance, with a reported revenue of
` 117,966 crore, growing 8.6% over the prior
year. TCS continues to be the most profitable
Company in the IT services industry, with a net
profit of ` 26,289 crore, which is a net margin
of 22.3%.
In keeping with our tradition of directing surplus
cash to shareholders, the Board has
recommended a final dividend of ` 27.50.
Including the three interim dividends paid earlier
this fiscal, the total dividend payout in FY 2017
amounts to ` 47 per share, a payout ratio
of 42.0%. In addition to that, your Company
announced a proposal to buy back up to
56,140,351 equity shares of the Company,
at ` 2,850 per share, for an aggregate amount
not exceeding ` 16,000 crore.
Business Performance
From a segmental point of view, revenue from
the Banking, Financial Services, and Insurance
industry grew close to the Company average.
With the exception of Retail and HiTech, all the
other industry verticals grew in double digits over
the prior year.
Our investments in geographies are paying off
very handsomely, with all regions reporting
considerable growth on a full year basis.
Continental Europe, Latin America, and Middle
East-Africa grew in the mid-teens, while the other
geographies grew in the 6 to 10% range on
a constant currency basis. Among the service
lines, I’m happy to report that our Enterprise
Solutions and Consulting business crossed $3 Bn
in revenue this year, while our BPS business
crossed the $2 Bn milestone.
Digital technologies account for most of the net
new IT spending by customers today. Your
Company continues to fare very well in this area,
emerging as the preferred partner for many large
enterprises in their Digital transformation
journeys. Over 55% of our clients engage with us
today on Digital Services, and that percentage is
much higher among larger clients. Digital revenue
crossed the $3 Bn milestone this year, making up
16.7% of revenue and growing 28.8% over the
prior year.
In FY 2017, your Company was the technology
partner of choice for many leading corporations
across the world in their business transformational
and Digital reimagination journeys. We helped the
world’s largest bauxite mining and aluminium
manufacturing company split into two entities by
engineering a flawless IT separation. One of the
largest healthcare organizations in the world chose
TCS to standardize and simplify its vast and complex
supply chain footprint. We helped one of the world’s
largest banks identify and publish some of the critical
APIs to their back-office systems that account for
85% of the bank’s transactions, inviting the global
developer community to build innovative new apps
that extend the bank’s services to newer customer
segments.
The key differentiators that enable TCS to
strategically partner with these large global
progressive corporations are our deep contextual
knowledge of customers’ business models,
functions, processes, and systems; our proactive
approach to innovation; and our commitment to
delivery excellence. At the core of all this is our
ability to attract, develop, and retain talent.
People
Your Company’s talent management practices
continue to be a benchmark in the industry. In FY
2017, we added about 79,000 employees
on a gross basis, ending the year with over
387,000 employees across 130 nationalities.
Women make up 34.7% of our workforce.
Our local hiring programs in various geographies
are progressing well. In FY 2017, we recruited
over 11,500 employees outside India, including
students from leading engineering campuses and
business schools in the US. This has allowed us
to bring down our dependence on work visas
significantly.
Your Company has made significant progress in
reskilling the workforce on newer technologies.
Our Digital competency development program
has resulted in over 200,000 TCS associates
getting Digitally trained, possessing nearly
600,000 competencies. We are experimenting
with ever more innovative ways to accelerate
Digital learning. One such recent initiative is
a mobile-first app that uses gamification to
deliver an immersive learning experience.
Our progressive policies, culture of empowerment,
and continual investments in people have
historically resulted in industry-best retention rates.
In FY 2017, our attrition rate in the IT Services segment was 10.5%; once again, the lowest in the industry.
A significant part of our innovation effort this
year was focused on harnessing the power
of artificial intelligence (AI) and automation.
This includes exciting new areas such as
conversational systems, natural language
processing systems, IoT platforms, robotics, and
image processing capabilities.
Your Company has filed more than 3,350 patent
applications to date, with 493 filings in FY17.
It has been 478 granted patents as of March 31,
2017. In addition, TCS Researchers presented
350+ papers in premier conferences.
The work we have done for our banking clients
on the Blockchain technology has established
us as a credible player in this emerging space.
The Blockchain platform built by our Research and
Innovation group has now been integrated into
the TCS BaNCS software.
In addition to the in-house effort, we also leverage
the innovation capabilities of our technology
partners, startups, and academic alliances.
Our Co-Innovation Network (COINTM) expanded in
FY 2017 to cover over 150 ecosystem partners,
2,000 startups, and 27 partnerships in academia.
All our products and platform offerings – industry-
focused ones such as TCS BaNCS, OptumeraTM,
Advanced Drug Development platform, and HOBS,
as well as horizontal and technology platforms
such as ignioTM, TAPTM, iON, CHROMATM, and TCS
MasterCraftTM – are achieving new milestones in
terms of customer adoption.
Agile, Cloud, and Automation
Competitive differentiation in the Digital world
will come from enterprises becoming smarter,
faster, and lighter. In terms of technology
imperatives, this requires adopting distributed
and location-independent Agile services,
embracing a cloud-first strategy, and deploying
automation at every level. TCS is aligning its internal initiatives, investments in capability
development, and solution offerings to these
three focus areas.
Beyond Business
Your Company has a long tradition of being
a responsible corporate citizen in all the
communities we work with across the world. The
guiding principle of TCS’ CSR programs is “Impact
through Empowerment” through interventions in
Education, Health and Environment.
I am proud to note that in FY 2017, TCSers
volunteered over 6.9 lakh hours for social and
environmental causes in their respective
communities.
The guiding philosophy behind our CSR programs
is to make an impact on communities by
empowering individuals. Many of our programs
are focused on imparting education and skills
which help individuals become productive.
Our long-running Adult Literacy Program, which
uses computers to impart functional literacy, now
supports nine Indian languages and continues to
expand its reach. In FY 2017, this program alone
reached 126,000 persons. Other programs in
India, like BridgeIT and our BPS and IT
Employability Programs help individuals from
underprivileged backgrounds find employment
and become catalysts of change in their
communities.
The TCS Research Scholarship Program is now in
its thirteenth cycle, covering 245 PhD scholars
across 33 institutes across India. 55 persons have
obtained their PhD through this program.
In North America, our flagship program goIT and
other initiatives to promote STEM education and
careers among students, continue to gather pace.
In FY 2017, our various programs touched the lives
of over 17,600 students. I am very happy to note
that the Million Women Mentors (MWM) initiative
which we support in the US has crossed the
milestone of 1 million pledges to mentor girls and
young women in STEM education and careers.
We launched a new program in the US called
'Ignite My Future in School' in partnership with
Discovery Education. It will engage over 20,000
teachers and help prepare over 1 million students
over the next five years in 10 US cities for Digital
careers.
In the field of healthcare, we continue to support
the Tata Medical Center. TCS initiated the
Outpatient Department Transformation
(TransOPD) at TMC for a better Patient Experience.
The TCS Fit4Life continues to energize employees
and increase their wellness. In FY 2017,
employees spent over 3 million hours logging 13.5
million kilometres of physical exercise and activity.
I am delighted that your Company has been
recognized and rewarded across multiple
dimensions by industry peers and stakeholders.
TCS is among the Top Three Global Brands in
IT Services. TCS has been recognized as the
Global Top Employer across 27 countries. TCS
retained the No. 1 position in Europe for customer
satisfaction for the fourth consecutive year.
During the past few months, I have met many
customers, each of them at different stages in
their Digital transformation journeys. Every one of
them is looking at further accelerating those
programs and becoming more technology-
driven. Speaking with the CXOs of these
organizations, I was humbled and re-energized,
by the uniformly high esteem in which they hold
your Company.
The business opportunity for us is huge, and we
are well placed in terms of industry expertise,
technology capabilities, customer relationships,
people, and execution model to participate in this
opportunity and continue to create value for all
our stakeholders. I thank you all for your
continued support and encouragement.

