Your Company delivered a strong performance during
2015-16 and crossed the trillion rupee revenue
milestone, with reported revenues of `1,08,646 crore at
an annual growth of 14.8 per cent. Operating margins
were an industry benchmark at 26.4 per cent for the
year, well within our target range of 26-28 per cent.
TCS remained the most profitable company in the Indian
IT services industry posting net margins of 22.4 per cent
and annual net profit of `24,292 crore. This performance
has enabled your Company to retain its position as the
most valuable company in India with a market
capitalisation of `4,95,770 crore (US$ 74.84 billion) as
on March 31, 2016.
We have continued our practice to consistently reward
our shareholders. In FY16, our total dividend pay-out
was `43.50 per share including `27 per share proposed
as final dividend. The earnings per share for the company
increased to 123.28.
Your Company’s customer-centric business model and
its philosophy in building new capabilities has led to
increased participation in our customers’ IT spend. The
core business portfolio has performed very well with all
key segments posting steady growth led by Banking &
Financial Services, Retail, Manufacturing and Life
Sciences - all these industries grew above the company
average growth rate on a constant currency basis.
In terms of markets, growth was well distributed with
North America growing 10.8 per cent, Europe by 12.9
per cent and United Kingdom by 8.3 per cent in constant
currency terms. India crossed $ 1 billion milestone in
annual revenues while overall revenues from new
Growth Markets exceeded $ 3.3 billion on in FY16.
From a services perspective, growth was led by
Infrastructure services, Products & Platforms
and Assurance services. Digital services grew by
52.2 per cent annually with revenues crossing the
$ 2 billion mark.
There were some headwinds in the business
environment for your Company. Adverse cross currency
movements severely impacted the reported US$
revenue of 16.55 billion by 4.8 per cent. This resulted in
lower US$ revenue growth of 7.1 per cent year-on-year
compared to 11.9 per cent growth in constant currency
terms. Diligenta, our life and pensions subsidiary in the
UK continued to experience some slowdown while
the broader insurance vertical also remained weak.
Our investment in Japan is yet to pick up momentum.
Your Company ’s talent development initiatives
continued to support business growth. At the end of
FY16, TCS had a diverse base of 3,53, 843 employees in
55 countries from 129 nationalities including
33.8 per cent women professionals. We continued to
enjoy the highest retention in the industry at 14.7 percent LTM (last 12 months) for IT professionals. Our
employee engagement programs like Fit4Life,
Purpose4Life and SafetyFirst are helping create
awareness about health and fitness as well as enabling
our employees to engage with the community to make a
positive impact.
It is the commitment and dedication of these TCSers
across the world that has helped your Company perform
on a sustained basis. On behalf of all the shareholders,
I would like to thank every TCSer for their drive and
passion that has helped this organisation maintain its
growth and momentum.
Today, customers see your Company as a partner of
choice for their transformation initiatives. This is evident
from the strength of the customer revenue metrics
which have shown exceptional improvement in FY16.
We added eight new customers in the $100+ million
band taking the total to 37 customers, while
37 new customers were added in the $10+ million
band totalling 298 customers. Our customer
satisfaction scores also reached an all-time high,
reflecting this trend.
Digital Technology Trends
Demand for our services is being driven by the
acceleration in the adoption of Digital. Digital is creating
new opportunities for enterprises to drive Efficiency and
Simplification across the business. Most brick and
mortar businesses were built in a pre-digital era.
Therefore, to thrive in the Digital economy, enterprises
are on a quest to deliver unique customer experiences,
gain real-time access to insights, improve workforce
productivity and create a hyper-connected eco-system.
The impact of “Digital Technologies” has further
intensified in the past twelve months. We are living in a
digital age, characterised by an accelerating trend of
hyper-connectivity between humans and also between
humans and smart devices. As you go through this
annual report, we have attempted to showcase some of
the key technology and business trends that are shaping
the future of TCS and that of our customers.
The digital world we inhabit today has very different
characteristics from what we have seen in the past.
It is forcing all of us - individuals, enterprises and
governments - to learn new ways to engage with
our stakeholders. In addition, widespread adoption of
Digital technologies by business is leading to the
evolution of the Smart Enterprise – companies that can
respond in real time and provide unique personalised
experiences for its customers.
Smart Enterprises are quick to recognise that in a Digital
world, experience supercedes features. This was not
the case even five years ago, when we would buy a
product based on its features alone without even
opening the box! But now it’s the experience of
the product or service that determines our buying
behaviour. The reason we focus on experience today is
because new features are only one software release
away. Whatever the product, be it a smart watch or
even a car, every software release brings new and
enriched features.
For a Smart Enterprise to respond in real-time or ahead
of time requires dematerialisation of an enterprise
where physical assets now have a Digital interface.
Once dematerialised, all enterprise’s assets -
technology, infrastructure, operations, logistics,
customer data and content - become software driven
and therefore now available for seamless correlation
and deriving proactive insights. For example, as goods
from cars to cans become more ‘intelligent ’,
a dematerialised smart enterprise can execute,
respond, plan and predict in real-time using insights
gleaned from big data.
To succeed, Smart Enterprises have to be Agile by
default. Agility is the ability of an enterprise to move with
speed and respond to changes in its environment swiftly
(for example, when launching new products).
Your Company is proactively increasing its use of
Agile/ DevOps (Development + Operations)
methodologies to radically decrease the time to market
of new solutions, while bringing about greater
collaboration between IT and business.
Further, to make sense of voluminous and unstructured
data that is increasing exponentially, Smart Enterprises
are using Artificial Intelligence technologies for
developing machine learning and deep learning
capabilities. Software robots are playing a bigger role in
our lives – from algorithmic trading and advisory
services in financial markets to mapbots which give us
daily driving directions. Additionally, cloud-based
models are enabling ‘anywhere-anytime-any device’
access to data which is creating a significant shift in
business models and enterprise IT architectures.
TCS Leadership in the Digital Economy
Your Company has been at the forefront of this
Digital revolution by making strategic investments
across multiple dimensions ahead of time to ensure that
we are well equipped to capture this big opportunity.
Today, we are Digital partners for 52% of our customers across multiple segments such as Mobility
and Pervasive Computing, Cloud, Big Data,
Artificial Intelligence & Robotics – all of which have
grown at a compounded quarterly growth rate of 8-12
per cent during FY16. We have built the right technology
talent combined with deep domain expertise and an
understanding of the customer’s business.
The Digital economy and disruptions in technologies are
changing the skills requirements in our industry.
Recognising the need to build the right Digital talent,
your Company has made significant investments to
upgrade skills of its employees as well as increase its
focus on hiring specialised talent.
TCS has created a world-class Digital Learning Platform -
an integrated ecosystem that combines virtual,
physical and experiential learning with high quality
content that is available anywhere, anyplace, anytime
and on any device. I am delighted to share that we have
trained over 1,20,000 TCSers in multiple digital
technologies during FY16.
Digital transformations entail new ways of collaboration
among teams that consist of players with multiple niche
skills – from design to psychology – in order to deliver a
‘customer-first’ experience. Towards this, we have
invested in a new Design Studio in Silicon Valley,
staffed with top notch professionals with diverse skill
sets. It is a collaborative space where customers can
co-create with TCS in a typical start-up ‘garage’
environment. A new executive briefing centre was also
launched for next-generation engagement with
customers using immersive technologies in Mumbai.
Your Company’s significant investments in Digital has
resulted in a growing portfolio of Digital products and
platforms. TCS’ strategic bets in TCS Bancs TM for
TM
Financial Services and iON for the Education sector
have performed well. We also continue to invest in
digital platform solutions for key industries, horizontal
functions (Account Payable, HR) as well as technology
assets. The new cloud platforms together delivered
$172 million in revenues in FY16, a growth of 37 per cent
year on year.
In June last year, we launched ignio TM , our flagship
automation product for enterprise IT that helps
customers analyse, plan and predict their IT needs.
With its cognitive capabilities, ignio TM is technologically
an advanced enterprise automation product in the
market. Within nine months of its launch it had signed up
16 customers. TCS has also filed 24 patents for ignio TM
till date.
Today’s digital enterprises also face an increased
exposure to cyber security threats from phishing
attacks, Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) and
hyper-connected universe, data confidentiality and data
sensitivity. TCS has taken proactive steps to combat
these threats and ensure uninterrupted service delivery
to customers. We also continue to reinforce our
stringent security policies and procedures.
Your Company has been pursuing a two-pronged
Research and Innovation (R&I) agenda. Our in-house R&I
programs have been refined to focus on foundational
research in areas like deep learning, nano-materials,
cognitive computing and genomics as well as engage in
industry-centric innovations like the use of blockchain
technology in banking, connected cars or smart homes.
Your Company remains focused on Intellectual Property
creation. At the end of FY16, the company has applied
for 2,842 patents cumulatively, including 565 applied
during the past 12 months, of which the company has
been granted 341 patents.
However, as an organisation we are humble enough to
recognise that it is impossible to innovate in isolation.
Therefore, to complement the in-house R&I efforts,
your Company has built a global start-up partnership
ecosystem called COIN TM (Co-Innovation Network)
which actively engages with technology start-ups,
academia and venture capitalists to identify innovative
ideas on an ongoing basis from over 1,400 companies on
our radar.
Additionally we continue to build our strategic academic
partnerships. In FY16 your Company made a
US$35 million gift to Pittsburgh-based Carnegie Mellon
University, which was the all-time largest corporate gift
to the university and the largest gift from outside the
U.S. This donation will fund a new 40,000 square feet
facility, the TCS Building, which will support education,
cutting-edge research and house state-of-the-art
facilities. In India, your Company also announced plans
to set up the FC Kohli Center on Intelligent Systems at
IIIT Hyderabad which will coordinate research in related
domains across different centres of the university.
In March, in collaboration with Nashik city and
MIT Media Labs, your Company began a unique social
innovation program. The TCS Digital Impact Square is an
open Social Innovation Platform to address real life
challenges by engaging with students and entrepreneurs from across India and providing them
with internships to build solutions to challenging social
issues using Digital technologies and human centric
design principles.
Your Company made a significant impact in the
community with new programs and initiatives.
TCS stepped forward to extend its support towards the
‘Swachh Bharat, Swachh Vidyalaya’ initiative,
announced by India’s Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi
on August 15, 2014. As the largest corporate
contributor to the program, your Company has built
dedicated toilets for girl students in 1,472 schools in
Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Bihar and Tamil Nadu,
changing lives of over 80,000 students in the process by
giving them the opportunity to live a healthy childhood
and gain an education.
Another landmark initiative was the social
transformation of All India Institute of Medical Sciences
– India’s pre-eminent public healthcare institution
- where using process re-engineering and technology,
a TCS team worked tirelessly for six months to
re-engineer and deploy new processes to reduce
waiting times by 66 per cent to less than two hours
benefitting over three million patients annually.
The TCS STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering,
Math) program expanded its reach, inspiring young
minds. It is designed to empower students to master
digital technologies through innovative technology
learning platforms. TCS contributed to US2020 program
to launch a new online platform which aims to connect
more STEM professionals to grassroots volunteering
opportunities, acknowledged by the US White House in
a press statement.
Your Company will continue to look for ways to make
significant social interventions using digital platforms
and technologies in the areas of health and education
going forward.
Last but not least, I am delighted to share that your
Company has been recognised and rewarded by peers
and stakeholders. TCS was rated as the world’s most
powerful brand in IT Services and also retained its
position as the fastest growing brand within its industry
over the last 6 years. Among other major accolades,
TCS ranked number 1 in Europe for Customer
Satisfaction by Whitelane Research for third year in a
row. Your Company also appeared in the global Forbes
100 most innovative global companies list for the
eighth consecutive year and topped the Business Today
500 list for the third year in a row.
Looking ahead, as global businesses aspire to become
Smart Enterprises by accelerating adoption of digital,
your Company is very well positioned in this regard.
Our rich customer base, domain expertise and deep
understanding of the customer landscape, technology
investments and IP combined with our global scale puts
us in pole position to make a significant impact in the
Digital world.
I would like to thank shareholders for all their support and
encouragement during the year.
